
Harry Potter
And the Order OF PhoenixC H A P T E R O N E
DUDLEY DEMENTED
T
he hottest day of the summer so far was drawing to a close and
a drowsy silence lay over the large, square houses of Privet
Drive. Cars that were usually gleaming stood dusty in their drives and
lawns that were once emerald green lay parched and yellowing the use
of hosepipes had been banned due to drought. Deprived of their usual
carwashing and lawnmowing pursuits, the inhabitants of Privet
Drive had retreated into the shade of their cool houses, windows
thrown wide in the hope of tempting in a nonexistent breeze. The
only person left outdoors was a teenage boy who was lying flat on his
back in a flower bed outside number four.
He was a skinny, blackhaired, bespectacled boy who had the
pinched, slightly unhealthy look of someone who has grown a lot in a
short space of time. His jeans were torn and dirty, his Tshirt baggy
and faded, and the soles of his trainers were peeling away from the up
pers. Harry Potters appearance did not endear him to the neighbors,
who were the sort of people who thought scruffiness ought to be pun
ishable by law, but as he had hidden himself behind a large hydrangea
bush this evening he was quite invisible to passersby. In fact, the only


CHAPTER ONE
way he would be spotted was if his Uncle Vernon or Aunt Petunia
stuck their heads out of the living room window and looked straight
down into the flower bed below.
On the whole, Harry thought he was to be congratulated on his
idea of hiding here. He was not, perhaps, very comfortable lying on
the hot, hard earth, but on the other hand, nobody was glaring at
him, grinding their teeth so loudly that he could not hear the news, or
shooting nasty questions at him, as had happened every time he had
tried sitting down in the living room and watching television with his
aunt and uncle.
Almost as though this thought had fluttered through the open win
dow, Vernon Dursley, Harrys uncle, suddenly spoke. Glad to see the
boys stopped trying to butt in. Where is he anyway?
I dont know, said Aunt Petunia unconcernedly. Not in the
house.
Uncle Vernon grunted.
Watching the news . . . he said scathingly. Id like to know what
hes really up to. As if a normal boy cares whats on the news  Dud
ley hasnt got a clue whats going on, doubt he knows who the Prime
Minister is! Anyway, its not as if thered be anything about his lot on
our news 
Vernon, shh! said Aunt Petunia. The windows open!
Oh  yes  sorry, dear . . .
The Dursleys fell silent. Harry listened to a jingle about Fruit N
Bran breakfast cereal while he watched Mrs. Figg, a batty, catloving
old lady from nearby Wisteria Walk, amble slowly past. She was
frowning and muttering to herself. Harry was very pleased that he was
concealed behind the bush Mrs. Figg had recently taken to asking
him around for tea whenever she met him in the street. She had
rounded the corner and vanished from view before Uncle Vernons
voice floated out of the window again.


DUDLEY DEMENTED
Dudders out for tea?
At the Polkisses, said Aunt Petunia fondly. Hes got so many lit
tle friends, hes so popular . . .
Harry repressed a snort with difficulty. The Dursleys really were as
tonishingly stupid about their son, Dudley they had swallowed all his
dimwitted lies about having tea with a different member of his gang
every night of the summer holidays. Harry knew perfectly well that
Dudley had not been to tea anywhere he and his gang spent every
evening vandalizing the play park, smoking on street corners, and
throwing stones at passing cars and children. Harry had seen them at
it during his evening walks around Little Whinging he had spent
most of the holidays wandering the streets, scavenging newspapers
from bins along the way.
The opening notes of the music that heralded the seven oclock
news reached Harrys ears and his stomach turned over. Perhaps
tonight  after a month of waiting  would be the night 
Record numbers of stranded holidaymakers fill airports as the
Spanish baggagehandlers strike reaches its second week 
Give em a lifelong siesta, I would, snarled Uncle Vernon over the
end of the newsreaders sentence, but no matter Outside in the flower
bed, Harrys stomach seemed to unclench. If anything had happened,
it would surely have been the first item on the news death and de
struction were more important than stranded holidaymakers. . . .
He let out a long, slow breath and stared up at the brilliant blue sky.
Every day this summer had been the same the tension, the expecta
tion, the temporary relief, and then mounting tension again . . . and
always, growing more insistent all the time, the question of why noth
ing had happened yet. . . .
He kept listening, just in case there was some small clue, not rec
ognized for what it really was by the Muggles  an unexplained
disappearance, perhaps, or some strange accident . . . but the


CHAPTER ONE
baggagehandlers strike was followed by news on the drought in the
Southeast I hope hes listening next door! bellowed Uncle Vernon,
with his sprinklers on at three in the morning! then a helicopter
that had almost crashed in a field in Surrey, then a famous actresss di
vorce from her famous husband as if were interested in their sordid
affairs, sniffed Aunt Petunia, who had followed the case obsessively
in every magazine she could lay her bony hands on.
Harry closed his eyes against the now blazing evening sky as the
newsreader said, And finally, Bungy the budgie has found a novel
way of keeping cool this summer. Bungy, who lives at the Five Feath
ers in Barnsley, has learned to waterski! Mary Dorkins went to find
out more. . . .
Harry opened his eyes again. If they had reached waterskiing
budgerigars, there was nothing else worth hearing. He rolled cau
tiously onto his front and raised himself onto his knees and elbows,
preparing to crawl out from under the window.
He had moved about two inches when several things happened in
very quick succession.
A loud, echoing crack broke the sleepy silence like a gunshot a cat
streaked out from under a parked car and flew out of sight a shriek, a
bellowed oath, and the sound of breaking china came from the Durs
leys living room, and as though Harry had been waiting for this
signal, he jumped to his feet, at the same time pulling from the waist
band of his jeans a thin wooden wand as if he were unsheathing a
sword. But before he could draw himself up to full height, the top of
his head collided with the Dursleys open window, and the resultant
crash made Aunt Petunia scream even louder.
Harry felt as if his head had been split in two eyes streaming, he
swayed, trying to focus on the street and spot the source of the noise,
but he had barely staggered upright again when two large purple
hands reached through the open window and closed tightly around
his throat.


DUDLEY DEMENTED
Put  it  away! Uncle Vernon snarled into Harrys ear. Now!
Before  anyone  sees!
Get  off  me! Harry gasped for a few seconds they strug
gled, Harry pulling at his uncles sausagelike fingers with his left
hand, his right maintaining a firm grip on his raised wand. Then, as
the pain in the top of Harrys head gave a particularly nasty throb, Un
cle Vernon yelped and released Harry as though he had received an
electric shock  some invisible force seemed to have surged through
his nephew, making him impossible to hold.
Panting, Harry fell forward over the hydrangea bush, straightened
up, and stared around. There was no sign of what had caused the loud
cracking noise, but there were several faces peering through various
nearby windows. Harry stuffed his wand hastily back into his jeans
and tried to look innocent.
Lovely evening! shouted Uncle Vernon, waving at Mrs. Number
Seven, who was glaring from behind her net curtains. Did you hear
that car backfire just now? Gave Petunia and me quite a turn!
He continued to grin in a horrible, manic way until all the curious
neighbors had disappeared from their various windows, then the grin
became a grimace of rage as he beckoned Harry back toward him.
Harry moved a few steps closer, taking care to stop just short of the
point at which Uncle Vernons outstretched hands could resume their
strangling.
What the devil do you mean by it, boy? asked Uncle Vernon in a
croaky voice that trembled with fury.
What do I mean by what? said Harry coldly. He kept looking left
and right up the street, still hoping to see the person who had made
the cracking noise.
Making a racket like a starting pistol right outside our 
I didnt make that noise, said Harry firmly.
Aunt Petunias thin, horsey face now appeared beside Uncle Ver
nons wide, purple one. She looked livid.


CHAPTER ONE
Why were you lurking under our window?
Yes  yes, good point, Petunia! What were you doing under our
window, boy?
Listening to the news, said Harry in a resigned voice.
His aunt and uncle exchanged looks of outrage.
Listening to the news! Again?
Well, it changes every day, you see, said Harry.
Dont you be clever with me, boy! I want to know what youre re
ally up to  and dont give me any more of this listening to the news
tosh! You know perfectly well that your lot . . .
Careful, Vernon! breathed Aunt Petunia, and Uncle Vernon low
ered his voice so that Harry could barely hear him, . . . that your lot
dont get on our news!
Thats all you know, said Harry.
The Dursleys goggled at him for a few seconds, then Aunt Petunia
said, Youre a nasty little liar. What are all those  she too lowered
her voice so that Harry had to lipread the next word,  owls 
doing if theyre not bringing you news?
Aha! said Uncle Vernon in a triumphant whisper. Get out of that
one, boy! As if we didnt know you get all your news from those pesti
lential birds!
Harry hesitated for a moment. It cost him something to tell the
truth this time, even though his aunt and uncle could not possibly
know how bad Harry felt at admitting it.
The owls . . . arent bringing me news, said Harry tonelessly.
I dont believe it, said Aunt Petunia at once.
No more do I, said Uncle Vernon forcefully.
We know youre up to something funny, said Aunt Petunia.
Were not stupid, you know, said Uncle Vernon.
Well, thats news to me, said Harry, his temper rising, and before
the Dursleys could call him back, he had wheeled about, crossed the


DUDLEY DEMENTED
front lawn, stepped over the low garden wall, and was striding off up
the street.
He was in trouble now and he knew it. He would have to face his
aunt and uncle later and pay the price for his rudeness, but he did not
care very much just at the moment he had much more pressing mat
ters on his mind.
Harry was sure that the cracking noise had been made by someone
Apparating or Disapparating. It was exactly the sound Dobby the
houseelf made when he vanished into thin air. Was it possible that
Dobby was here in Privet Drive? Could Dobby be following him right
at this very moment? As this thought occurred he wheeled around and
stared back down Privet Drive, but it appeared to be completely de
serted again and Harry was sure that Dobby did not know how to
become invisible. . . .
He walked on, hardly aware of the route he was taking, for he had
pounded these streets so often lately that his feet carried him to his fa
vorite haunts automatically. Every few steps he glanced back over his
shoulder. Someone magical had been near him as he lay among Aunt
Petunias dying begonias, he was sure of it. Why hadnt they spoken to
him, why hadnt they made contact, why were they hiding now?
And then, as his feeling of frustration peaked, his certainty leaked
away.
Perhaps it hadnt been a magical sound after all. Perhaps he was so
desperate for the tiniest sign of contact from the world to which he
belonged that he was simply overreacting to perfectly ordinary noises.
Could he be sure it hadnt been the sound of something breaking in
side a neighbors house?
Harry felt a dull, sinking sensation in his stomach and, before he
knew it, the feeling of hopelessness that had plagued him all summer
rolled over him once again. . . .
Tomorrow morning he would be awoken by the alarm at five


CHAPTER ONE
oclock so that he could pay the owl that delivered the Daily
Prophet  but was there any point in continuing to take it? Harry
merely glanced at the front page before throwing it aside these days
when the idiots who ran the paper finally realized that Voldemort was
back it would be headline news, and that was the only kind Harry
cared about.
If he was lucky, there would also be owls carrying letters from his
best friends, Ron and Hermione, though any expectation he had had
that their letters would bring him news had long since been dashed.
We cant say much about youknowwhat, obviously. . . . Weve been
told not to say anything important in case our letters go astray. . . .
Were quite busy but I cant give you details here. . . . Theres a fair
amount going on, well tell you everything when we see you. . . .
But when were they going to see him? Nobody seemed too both
ered with a precise date. Hermione had scribbled, I expect well be see
ing you quite soon inside his birthday card, but how soon was soon? As
far as Harry could tell from the vague hints in their letters, Hermione
and Ron were in the same place, presumably at Rons parents house.
He could hardly bear to think of the pair of them having fun at the
Burrow when he was stuck in Privet Drive. In fact, he was so angry at
them that he had thrown both their birthday presents of Honeydukes
chocolates away unopened, though he had regretted this after eating
the wilting salad Aunt Petunia had provided for dinner that night.
And what were Ron and Hermione busy with? Why wasnt he,
Harry, busy? Hadnt he proved himself capable of handling much
more than they? Had they all forgotten what he had done? Hadnt it
been he who had entered that graveyard and watched Cedric being
murdered and been tied to that tombstone and nearly killed . . . ?
Dont think about that, Harry told himself sternly for the hundredth
time that summer. It was bad enough that he kept revisiting the grave
yard in his nightmares, without dwelling on it in his waking moments
too.


DUDLEY DEMENTED
He turned a corner into Magnolia Crescent halfway along he
passed the narrow alleyway down the side of a garage where he had
first clapped eyes on his godfather. Sirius, at least, seemed to under
stand how Harry was feeling admittedly his letters were just as empty
of proper news as Ron and Hermiones, but at least they contained
words of caution and consolation instead of tantalizing hints
I know this must be frustrating for you. . . . Keep your nose clean
and everything will be okay. . . . Be careful and dont do anything
rash. . . .
Well, thought Harry, as he crossed Magnolia Crescent, turned into
Magnolia Road, and headed toward the darkening play park, he had
by and large done as Sirius advised he had at least resisted the temp
tation to tie his trunk to his broomstick and set off for the Burrow
by himself. In fact Harry thought his behavior had been very good
considering how frustrated and angry he felt at being stuck in Privet
Drive this long, reduced to hiding in flower beds in the hope of hear
ing something that might point to what Lord Voldemort was doing.
Nevertheless, it was quite galling to be told not to be rash by a man
who had served twelve years in the wizard prison, Azkaban, escaped,
attempted to commit the murder he had been convicted for in the
first place, then gone on the run with a stolen hippogriff. . . .
Harry vaulted over the locked park gate and set off across the
parched grass. The park was as empty as the surrounding streets.
When he reached the swings he sank onto the only one that Dudley
and his friends had not yet managed to break, coiled one arm around
the chain, and stared moodily at the ground. He would not be able to
hide in the Dursleys flower bed again. Tomorrow he would have to
think of some fresh way of listening to the news. In the meantime, he
had nothing to look forward to but another restless, disturbed night,
because even when he escaped nightmares about Cedric he had unset
tling dreams about long dark corridors, all finishing in dead ends and
locked doors, which he supposed had something to do with the


CHAPTER ONE
trapped feeling he had when he was awake. Often the old scar on his
forehead prickled uncomfortably, but he did not fool himself that
Ron or Hermione or Sirius would find that very interesting any
more. . . . In the past his scar hurting had warned that Voldemort was
getting stronger again, but now that Voldemort was back they would
probably remind him that its regular irritation was only to be ex
pected. . . . Nothing to worry about . . . old news . . .
The injustice of it all welled up inside him so that he wanted to yell
with fury. If it hadnt been for him, nobody would even have known
Voldemort was back! And his reward was to be stuck in Little Whing
ing for four solid weeks, completely cut off from the magical world,
reduced to squatting among dying begonias so that he could hear
about waterskiing budgerigars! How could Dumbledore have forgot
ten him so easily? Why had Ron and Hermione got together without
inviting him along too? How much longer was he supposed to endure
Sirius telling him to sit tight and be a good boy or resist the tempta
tion to write to the stupid Daily Prophet and point out that Volde
mort had returned? These furious thoughts whirled around in Harrys
head, and his insides writhed with anger as a sultry, velvety night fell
around him, the air full of the smell of warm, dry grass and the only
sound that of the low grumble of traffic on the road beyond the park
railings.
He did not know how long he had sat on the swing before the
sound of voices interrupted his musings and he looked up. The street
lamps from the surrounding roads were casting a misty glow strong
enough to silhouette a group of people making their way across the
park. One of them was singing a loud, crude song. The others were
laughing. A soft ticking noise came from several expensive racing
bikes that they were wheeling along.
Harry knew who those people were. The figure in front was unmis
takably his cousin, Dudley Dursley, wending his way home, accom
panied by his faithful gang.


DUDLEY DEMENTED
Dudley was as vast as ever, but a years hard dieting and the discov
ery of a new talent had wrought quite a change in his physique. As
Uncle Vernon delightedly told anyone who would listen, Dudley had
recently become the Junior Heavyweight InterSchool Boxing Cham
pion of the Southeast. The noble sport, as Uncle Vernon called it,
had made Dudley even more formidable than he had seemed to Harry
in the primary school days when he had served as Dudleys first
punching bag. Harry was not remotely afraid of his cousin anymore
but he still didnt think that Dudley learning to punch harder and
more accurately was cause for celebration. Neighborhood children all
around were terrified of him  even more terrified than they were of
that Potter boy, who, they had been warned, was a hardened hooli
gan who attended St. Brutuss Secure Center for Incurably Criminal
Boys.
Harry watched the dark figures crossing the grass and wondered
whom they had been beating up tonight. Look round, Harry found
himself thinking as he watched them. Come on . . . look round . . . Im
sitting here all alone. . . . Come and have ago. . . .
If Dudleys friends saw him sitting here, they would be sure to
make a beeline for him, and what would Dudley do then? He
wouldnt want to lose face in front of the gang, but hed be terrified of
provoking Harry. . . . It would be really fun to watch Dudleys
dilemma to taunt him, watch him, with him powerless to respond
. . . and if any of the others tried hitting Harry, Harry was ready  he
had his wand . . . let them try . . . Hed love to vent some of his frus
tration on the boys who had once made his life hell 
But they did not turn around, they did not see him, they were al
most at the railings. Harry mastered the impulse to call after them.
. . . Seeking a fight was not a smart move. . . . He must not use
magic. . . . He would be risking expulsion again. . . .
Dudleys gangs voices died they were out of sight, heading along
Magnolia Road.


CHAPTER ONE
There you go, Sirius, Harry thought dully. Nothing rash. Kept my
nose clean. Exactly the opposite of what youd have done . . .
He got to his feet and stretched. Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon
seemed to feel that whenever Dudley turned up was the right time to
be home, and anytime after that was much too late. Uncle Vernon had
threatened to lock Harry in the shed if he came home after Dudley
again, so, stifling a yawn, still scowling, Harry set off toward the park
gate.
Magnolia Road, like Privet Drive, was full of large, square houses
with perfectly manicured lawns, all owned by large, square owners
who drove very clean cars similar to Uncle Vernons. Harry preferred
Little Whinging by night, when the curtained windows made patches
of jewelbright colors in the darkness and he ran no danger of hearing
disapproving mutters about his delinquent appearance when he
passed the householders. He walked quickly, so that halfway along
Magnolia Road Dudleys gang came into view again they were saying
their farewells at the entrance to Magnolia Crescent. Harry stepped
into the shadow of a large lilac tree and waited.
. . . squealed like a pig, didnt he? Malcolm was saying, to guffaws
from the others.
Nice right hook, Big D, said Piers.
Same time tomorrow? said Dudley.
Round at my place, my parents are out, said Gordon.
See you then, said Dudley.
Bye Dud!
See ya, Big D!
Harry waited for the rest of the gang to move on before setting off
again. When their voices had faded once more he headed around the
corner into Magnolia Crescent and by walking very quickly he soon
came within hailing distance of Dudley, who was strolling along at his
ease, humming tunelessly.
Hey, Big D!


DUDLEY DEMENTED
Dudley turned.
Oh, he grunted. Its you.
How long have you been Big D then? said Harry.
Shut it, snarled Dudley, turning away again.
Cool name, said Harry, grinning and falling into step beside his
cousin. But youll always be Ickle Diddykins to me.
I said, SHUT IT! said Dudley, whose hamlike hands had curled
into fists.
Dont the boys know thats what your mum calls you?
Shut your face.
You dont tell her to shut her face. What about popkin and
Dinky Diddydums, can I use them then?
Dudley said nothing. The effort of keeping himself from hitting
Harry seemed to be demanding all his selfcontrol.
So whove you been beating up tonight? Harry asked, his grin
fading. Another tenyearold? I know you did Mark Evans two nights
ago 
He was asking for it, snarled Dudley.
Oh yeah?
He cheeked me.
Yeah? Did he say you look like a pig thats been taught to walk on
its hind legs? Cause thats not cheek, Dud, thats true . . .
A muscle was twitching in Dudleys jaw. It gave Harry enormous
satisfaction to know how furious he was making Dudley he felt as
though he was siphoning off his own frustration into his cousin, the
only outlet he had.
They turned right down the narrow alleyway where Harry had
first seen Sirius and which formed a shortcut between Magnolia
Crescent and Wisteria Walk. It was empty and much darker than the
streets it linked because there were no streetlamps. Their footsteps
were muffled between garage walls on one side and a high fence on
the other.


CHAPTER ONE
Think youre a big man carrying that thing, dont you? Dudley
said after a few seconds.
What thing?
That  that thing youre hiding.
Harry grinned again.
Not as stupid as you look, are you, Dud? But I spose if you were,
you wouldnt be able to walk and talk at the same time. . . .
Harry pulled out his wand. He saw Dudley look sideways at it.
Youre not allowed, Dudley said at once. I know youre not.
Youd get expelled from that freak school you go to.
How dyou know they havent changed the rules, Big D?
They havent, said Dudley, though he didnt sound completely
convinced. Harry laughed softly.
You havent got the guts to take me on without that thing, have
you? Dudley snarled.
Whereas you just need four mates behind you before you can beat
up a tenyearold. You know that boxing title you keep banging on
about? How old was your opponent? Seven? Eight?
He was sixteen for your information, snarled Dudley, and he was
out cold for twenty minutes after Id finished with him and he was
twice as heavy as you. You just wait till I tell Dad you had that thing
out 
Running to Daddy now, are you? Is his ickle boxing champ fright
ened of nasty Harrys wand?
Not this brave at night, are you? sneered Dudley.
This is night, Diddykins. Thats what we call it when it goes all
dark like this.
I mean when youre in bed! Dudley snarled.
He had stopped walking. Harry stopped too, staring at his cousin.
From the little he could see of Dudleys large face, he was wearing a
strangely triumphant look.
What dyou mean, Im not brave in bed? said Harry, completely


DUDLEY DEMENTED
nonplussed. What  am I supposed to be frightened of pillows or
something?
I heard you last night, said Dudley breathlessly. Talking in your
sleep. Moaning.
What dyou mean? Harry said again, but there was a cold, plung
ing sensation in his stomach. He had revisited the graveyard last night
in his dreams.
Dudley gave a harsh bark of laughter then adopted a highpitched,
whimpering voice.  Dont kill Cedric! Dont kill Cedric! Whos
Cedric  your boyfriend?
I  youre lying  said Harry automatically. But his mouth had
gone dry. He knew Dudley wasnt lying  how else would he know
about Cedric?
 Dad! Help me, Dad! Hes going to kill me, Dad! Boohoo! 
Shut up, said Harry quietly. Shut up, Dudley, Im warning you!
 Come and help me, Dad! Mum, come and help me! Hes killed
Cedric! Dad, help me! Hes going to  Dont you point that thing at
me!
Dudley backed into the alley wall. Harry was pointing the wand di
rectly at Dudleys heart. Harry could feel fourteen years hatred of
Dudley pounding in his veins  what wouldnt he give to strike now,
to jinx Dudley so thoroughly hed have to crawl home like an insect,
struck dumb, sprouting feelers 
Dont ever talk about that again, Harry snarled. Dyou under
stand me?
Point that thing somewhere else!
I said, do you understand me?
Point it somewhere else!
DO YOU UNDERSTAND ME?
GET THAT THING AWAY FROM 
Dudley gave an odd, shuddering gasp, as though he had been
doused in icy water.


CHAPTER ONE
Something had happened to the night. The starstrewn indigo sky
was suddenly pitchblack and lightless  the stars, the moon, the
misty streetlamps at either end of the alley had vanished. The distant
grumble of cars and the whisper of trees had gone. The balmy evening
was suddenly piercingly, bitingly cold. They were surrounded by total,
impenetrable, silent darkness, as though some giant hand had
dropped a thick, icy mantle over the entire alleyway, blinding them.
For a split second Harry thought he had done magic without
meaning to, despite the fact that hed been resisting as hard as he
could  then his reason caught up with his senses  he didnt have
the power to turn off the stars. He turned his head this way and that,
trying to see something, but the darkness pressed on his eyes like a
weightless veil.
Dudleys terrified voice broke in Harrys ear.
Wwhat are you ddoing? Ststop it!
Im not doing anything! Shut up and dont move!
I ccant see! Ive ggone blind! I 
I said shut up!
Harry stood stockstill, turning his sightless eyes left and right. The
cold was so intense that he was shivering all over goose bumps had
erupted up his arms, and the hairs on the back of his neck were stand
ing up  he opened his eyes to their fullest extent, staring blankly
around, unseeing . . .
It was impossible. . . . They couldnt be here. . . . Not in Little
Whinging . . . He strained his ears. . . . He would hear them before
he saw them. . . .
Ill ttell Dad! Dudley whimpered. Wwhere are you? What are
you ddo  ?
Will you shut up? Harry hissed, Im trying to lis 
But he fell silent. He had heard just the thing he had been
dreading.
There was something in the alleyway apart from themselves, some


DUDLEY DEMENTED
thing that was drawing long, hoarse, rattling breaths. Harry felt a hor
rible jolt of dread as he stood trembling in the freezing air.
Ccut it out! Stop doing it! Ill hhit you, I swear I will!
Dudley, shut 
WHAM !
A fist made contact with the side of Harrys head, lifting Harry off
his feet. Small white lights popped in front of Harrys eyes for the sec
ond time in an hour he felt as though his head had been cleaved in
two next moment he had landed hard on the ground, and his wand
had flown out of his hand.
You moron, Dudley! Harry yelled, his eyes watering with pain, as
he scrambled to his hands and knees, now feeling around frantically in
the blackness. He heard Dudley blundering away, hitting the alley
fence, stumbling.
DUDLEY, COME BACK! YOURE RUNNING RIGHT AT
IT!
There was a horrible squealing yell, and Dudleys footsteps
stopped. At the same moment, Harry felt a creeping chill behind him
that could mean only one thing. There was more than one.
DUDLEY, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! WHATEVER YOU
DO, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! Wand! Harry muttered franti
cally, his hands flying over the ground like spiders. Wheres  wand
 come on  Lumos!
He said the spell automatically, desperate for light to help him in
his search  and to his disbelieving relief, light flared inches from his
right hand  the wand tip had ignited. Harry snatched it up, scram
bled to his feet, and turned around.
His stomach turned over.
A towering, hooded figure was gliding smoothly toward him,
hovering over the ground, no feet or face visible beneath its robes,
sucking on the night as it came.
Stumbling backward, Harry raised his wand.


CHAPTER ONE
Expecto Patronum!
A silvery wisp of vapor shot from the tip of the wand and the de
mentor slowed, but the spell hadnt worked properly tripping over his
feet, Harry retreated farther as the dementor bore down upon him,
panic fogging his brain  concentrate 
A pair of gray, slimy, scabbed hands slid from inside the dementors
robes, reaching for him. A rushing noise filled Harrys ears.
Expecto Patronum!
His voice sounded dim and distant. . . . Another wisp of silver
smoke, feebler than the last, drifted from the wand  he couldnt do
it anymore, he couldnt work the spell 
There was laughter inside his own head, shrill, highpitched laugh
ter. . . . He could smell the dementors putrid, deathcold breath, fill
ing his own lungs, drowning him  Think . . . something happy. . . .
But there was no happiness in him. . . . The dementors icy fingers
were closing on his throat  the highpitched laughter was growing
louder and louder, and a voice spoke inside his head  Bow to death,
Harry. . . . It might even be painless. . . . I would not know. . . . I have
never died. . . .
He was never going to see Ron and Hermione again 
And their faces burst clearly into his mind as he fought for
breath 
EXPECTO PATRONUM !
An enormous silver stag erupted from the tip of Harrys wand its
antlers caught the dementor in the place where the heart should have
been it was thrown backward, weightless as darkness, and as the stag
charged, the dementor swooped away, batlike and defeated.
THIS WAY! Harry shouted at the stag. Wheeling around, he
sprinted down the alleyway, holding the lit wand aloft. DUDLEY?
DUDLEY!
He had run barely a dozen steps when he reached them Dudley
was curled on the ground, his arms clamped over his face a second de


DUDLEY DEMENTED
mentor was crouching low over him, gripping his wrists in its slimy
hands, prizing them slowly, almost lovingly apart, lowering its hooded
head toward Dudleys face as though about to kiss him. . . .
GET IT! Harry bellowed, and with a rushing, roaring sound, the
silver stag he had conjured came galloping back past him. The de
mentors eyeless face was barely an inch from Dudleys when the silver
antlers caught it the thing was thrown up into the air and, like its
fellow, it soared away and was absorbed into the darkness. The stag
cantered to the end of the alleyway and dissolved into silver mist.
Moon, stars, and streetlamps burst back into life. A warm breeze
swept the alleyway. Trees rustled in neighboring gardens and the mun
dane rumble of cars in Magnolia Crescent filled the air again. Harry
stood quite still, all his senses vibrating, taking in the abrupt return to
normality. After a moment he became aware that his Tshirt was stick
ing to him he was drenched in sweat.
He could not believe what had just happened. Dementors here, in
Little Whinging . . .
Dudley lay curled up on the ground, whimpering and shaking.
Harry bent down to see whether he was in a fit state to stand up, but
then heard loud, running footsteps behind him instinctively raising
his wand again, he spun on his heel to face the newcomer.
Mrs. Figg, their batty old neighbor, came panting into sight. Her
grizzled gray hair was escaping from its hairnet, a clanking string
shopping bag was swinging from her wrist, and her feet were halfway
out of her tartan carpet slippers. Harry made to stow his wand hur
riedly out of sight, but 
Dont put it away, idiot boy! she shrieked. What if there are
more of them around? Oh, Im going to kill Mundungus Fletcher!


C H A P T E R T W O
A PECK OF OWLS
W
hat? said Harry blankly.
He left! said Mrs. Figg, wringing her hands. Left to see
someone about a batch of cauldrons that fell off the back of a broom!
I told him Id flay him alive if he went, and now look! Dementors! Its
just lucky I put Mr. Tibbies on the case! But we havent got time to
stand around! Hurry, now, weve got to get you back! Oh, the trouble
this is going to cause! I will kill him!
But 
The revelation that his batty old catobsessed neighbor knew what
dementors were was almost as big a shock to Harry as meeting two of
them down the alleyway. Youre  youre a witch?
Im a Squib, as Mundungus knows full well, so how on earth was
I supposed to help you fight off dementors? He left you completely
without cover when I warned him 
This bloke Mundungus has been following me? Hang on  it
was him! He Disapparated from the front of my house!
Yes, yes, yes, but luckily Id stationed Mr. Tibbies under a car just
in case, and Mr. Tibbies came and warned me, but by the time I got


A PECK OF OWLS
to your house youd gone  and now  oh, whats Dumbledore go
ing to say? You! she shrieked at Dudley, still supine on the alley floor.
Get your fat bottom off the ground, quick!
You know Dumbledore? said Harry, staring at her.
Of course I know Dumbledore, who doesnt know Dumbledore?
But come on  Ill be no help if they come back, Ive never so much
as Transfigured a teabag 
She stooped down, seized one of Dudleys massive arms in her wiz
ened hands, and tugged.
Get up, you useless lump, get up!
But Dudley either could not or would not move. He was still on
the ground, trembling and ashenfaced, his mouth shut very tight.
Ill do it. Harry took hold of Dudleys arm and heaved With an
enormous effort he managed to hoist Dudley to his feet. Dudley
seemed to be on the point of fainting His small eyes were rolling in
their sockets and sweat was beading his face the moment Harry let go
of him he swayed dangerously.
Hurry up! said Mrs. Figg hysterically.
Harry pulled one of Dudleys massive arms around his own shoul
ders and dragged him toward the road, sagging slightly under his
weight. Mrs. Figg tottered along in front of them, peering anxiously
around the corner.
Keep your wand out, she told Harry, as they entered Wisteria
Walk. Never mind the Statute of Secrecy now, theres going to be hell
to pay anyway, we might as well be hanged for a dragon as an egg. Talk
about the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery . . . This was
exactly what Dumbledore was afraid of  whats that at the end of the
street? Oh, its just Mr. Prentice. . . . Dont put your wand away, boy,
dont I keep telling you Im no use?
It was not easy to hold a wand steady and carry Dudley along at the
same time. Harry gave his cousin an impatient dig in the ribs, but
Dudley seemed to have lost all desire for independent movement. He


CHAPTER TWO
was slumped on Harrys shoulder, his large feet dragging along the
ground.
Why didnt you tell me youre a Squib? Harry asked Mrs. Figg,
panting with the effort to keep walking. All those times I came round
your house  why didnt you say anything?
Dumbledores orders. I was to keep an eye on you but not say any
thing, you were too young. Im sorry I gave you such a miserable time,
but the Dursleys would never have let you come if theyd thought you
enjoyed it. It wasnt easy, you know. . . . But oh my word, she said
tragically, wringing her hands once more, when Dumbledore hears
about this  how could Mundungus have left, he was supposed to be
on duty until midnight  where is he? How am I going to tell Dum
bledore whats happened, I cant Apparate 
Ive got an owl, you can borrow her, Harry groaned, wondering
whether his spine was going to snap under Dudleys weight.
Harry, you dont understand! Dumbledore will need to act as
quickly as possible, the Ministry have their own ways of detecting un
derage magic, theyll know already, you mark my words 
But I was getting rid of dementors, I had to use magic  theyre
going to be more worried what dementors were doing floating around
Wisteria Walk, surely?
Oh my dear, I wish it were so but Im afraid  MUNDUNGUS
FLETCHER, I AM GOING TO KILL YOU!
There was a loud crack and a strong smell of mingled drink and
stale tobacco filled the air as a squat, unshaven man in a tattered over
coat materialized right in front of them. He had short bandy legs, long
straggly ginger hair, and bloodshot baggy eyes that gave him the dole
ful look of a basset hound he was also clutching a silvery bundle that
Harry recognized at once as an Invisibility Cloak.
 S up, Figgy? he said, staring from Mrs. Figg to Harry and Dud
ley. What appened to staying undercover?


A PECK OF OWLS
Ill give you undercover! cried Mrs. Figg. Dementors, you useless,
skiving sneak thief!
Dementors? repeated Mundungus, aghast. Dementors here?
Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here! shrieked
Mrs. Figg. Dementors attacking the boy on your watch!
Blimey, said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs. Figg to
Harry and back again. Blimey, I . . .
And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didnt I tell you not to go?
Didnt I ?
I  well, I  Mundungus looked deeply uncomfortable. It . . .
it was a very good business opportunity, see . . .
Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag dangled and
whacked Mundungus around the face and neck with it judging by
the clanking noise it made it was full of cat food.
Ouch  gerroff  gerroff, you mad old bat! Someones gotta tell
Dumbledore!
Yes  they  have! yelled Mrs. Figg, still swinging the bag of
cat food at every bit of Mundungus she could reach. And  it 
had  better  be  you  and  you  can  tell  him 
why  you  werent  there  to  help!
Keep your airnet on! said Mundungus, his arms over his head,
cowering. Im going, Im going!
And with another loud crack, he vanished.
I hope Dumbledore murders him! said Mrs. Figg furiously. Now
come on, Harry, what are you waiting for?
Harry decided not to waste his remaining breath on pointing out
that he could barely walk under Dudleys bulk. He gave the semicon
scious Dudley a heave and staggered onward.
Ill take you to the door, said Mrs. Figg, as they turned into Privet
Drive. Just in case there are more of them around. . . . Oh my word,
what a catastrophe . . . and you had to fight them off yourself . . . and


CHAPTER TWO
Dumbledore said we were to keep you from doing magic at all costs.
. . . Well, its no good crying over spilled potion, I suppose . . . but the
cats among the pixies now . . .
So, Harry panted, Dumbledores . . . been having . . . me
followed?
Of course he has, said Mrs. Figg impatiently. Did you expect
him to let you wander around on your own after what happened in
June? Good Lord, boy, they told me you were intelligent. . . . Right
. . . get inside and stay there, she said as they reached number four. I
expect someone will be in touch with you soon enough.
What are you going to do? asked Harry quickly.
Im going straight home, said Mrs. Figg, staring around the dark
street and shuddering. Ill need to wait for more instructions. Just
stay in the house. Good night.
Hang on, dont go yet! I want to know 
But Mrs. Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet slippers flopping,
string bag clanking.
Wait! Harry shouted after her he had a million questions to ask
anyone who was in contact with Dumbledore but within seconds
Mrs. Figg was swallowed by the darkness. Scowling, Harry readjusted
Dudley on his shoulder and made his slow, painful way up number
fours garden path.
The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand back inside the waist
band of his jeans, rang the bell, and watched Aunt Petunias outline
grow larger and larger, oddly distorted by the rippling glass in the
front door.
Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite  quite  Diddy,
whats the matter?
Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out from under his
arm just in time. Dudley swayed for a moment on the spot, his face
pale green, then he opened his mouth at last and vomited all over the
doormat.


A PECK OF OWLS
DIDDY! Diddy, whats the matter with you? Vernon? VERNON!
Harrys uncle came galumphing out of the living room, walrus mus
tache blowing hither and thither as it always did when he was agitated.
He hurried forward to help Aunt Petunia negotiate a weakkneed
Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping in the pool of sick.
Hes ill, Vernon!
What is it, son? Whats happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss give you
something foreign for tea?
Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you been lying on
the ground?
Hang on  you havent been mugged, have you, son?
Aunt Petunia screamed.
Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy, darling, speak
to Mummy! What did they do to you?
In all the kerfuffle, nobody seemed to have noticed Harry, which
suited him perfectly. He managed to slip inside just before Uncle Ver
non slammed the door and while the Dursleys made their noisy
progress down the hall toward the kitchen, Harry moved carefully and
quietly toward the stairs.
Who did it, son? Give us names. Well get them, dont worry.
Shh! Hes trying to say something, Vernon! What is it, Diddy? Tell
Mummy!
Harrys foot was on the bottommost stair when Dudley found his
voice.
Him.
Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced for the
explosion.
BOY! COME HERE!
With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry removed his foot
slowly from the stair and turned to follow the Dursleys.
The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal glitter after the
darkness outside. Aunt Petunia was ushering Dudley into a chair he


CHAPTER TWO
was still very green and clammy looking. Uncle Vernon was standing
in front of the draining board, glaring at Harry through tiny, nar
rowed eyes.
What have you done to my son? he said in a menacing growl.
Nothing, said Harry, knowing perfectly well that Uncle Vernon
wouldnt believe him.
What did he do to you, Diddy? Aunt Petunia said in a quavering
voice, now sponging sick from the front of Dudleys leather jacket.
Was it  was it youknowwhat, darling? Did he use  his thing?
Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded.
I didnt! Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out a wail and
Uncle Vernon raised his fists. I didnt do anything to him, it wasnt
me, it was 
But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in through the
kitchen window. Narrowly missing the top of Uncle Vernons head, it
soared across the kitchen, dropped the large parchment envelope it
was carrying in its beak at Harrys feet, and turned gracefully, the tips
of its wings just brushing the top of the fridge, then zoomed outside
again and off across the garden.
OWLS! bellowed Uncle Vernon, the wellworn vein in his tem
ple pulsing angrily as he slammed the kitchen window shut. OWLS
AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY MORE OWLS IN MY
HOUSE!
But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and pulling out
the letter inside, his heart pounding somewhere in the region of his
Adams apple.
Dear Mr. Potter,
We have received intelligence that you performed the Pa
tronus Charm at twentythree minutes past nine this evening
in a Muggleinhabited area and in the presence of a Muggle.
The severity of this breach of the Decree for the Reason


A PECK OF OWLS
able Restriction of Underage Sorcery has resulted in your ex
pulsion from Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Ministry representatives will be calling at your place of resi
dence shortly to destroy your wand.
As you have already received an official warning for a
previous offense under section  of the International Con
federation of Wizards Statute of Secrecy, we regret to inform
you that your presence is required at a disciplinary hearing at
the Ministry of Magic at  a.m. on August th.
Hoping you are well,
Yours sincerely,
improper use of magic office
Ministry of Magic
Harry read the letter through twice. He was only vaguely aware of
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia talking in the vicinity. Inside his
head, all was icy and numb. One fact had penetrated his conscious
ness like a paralyzing dart. He was expelled from Hogwarts. It was all
over. He was never going back.
He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was purplefaced,
shouting, his fists still raised Aunt Petunia had her arms around Dud
ley, who was retching again.
Harrys temporarily stupefied brain seemed to reawaken. Ministry
representatives will be calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy
your wand. There was only one thing for it. He would have to run 
now. Where he was going to go, Harry didnt know, but he was certain
of one thing At Hogwarts or outside it, he needed his wand. In an
almost dreamlike state, he pulled his wand out and turned to leave the
kitchen.


CHAPTER TWO
Where dyou think youre going? yelled Uncle Vernon. When
Harry didnt reply, he pounded across the kitchen to block the door
way into the hall. I havent finished with you, boy!
Get out of the way, said Harry quietly.
Youre going to stay here and explain how my son 
If you dont get out of the way Im going to jinx you, said Harry,
raising the wand.
You cant pull that one on me! snarled Uncle Vernon. I know
youre not allowed to use it outside that madhouse you call a school!
The madhouse has chucked me out, said Harry. So I can do
whatever I like. Youve got three seconds. One  two 
A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen Aunt Petunia screamed,
Uncle Vernon yelled and ducked, but for the third time that night
Harry was staring for the source of a disturbance he had not made. He
spotted it at once A dazed and ruffledlooking barn owl was sitting
outside on the kitchen sill, having just collided with the closed
window.
Ignoring Uncle Vernons anguished yell of OWLS! Harry crossed
the room at a run and wrenched the window open again. The owl
stuck out its leg, to which a small roll of parchment was tied, shook its
feathers, and took off the moment Harry had pulled off the letter.
Hands shaking, Harry unfurled the second message, which was writ
ten very hastily and blotchily in black ink.
Harry 
Dumbledores just arrived at the Ministry, and hes trying to
sort it all out. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND
UNCLES HOUSE. DO NOT DO ANY MORE MAGIC.
DO NOT SURRENDER YOUR WAND.


A PECK OF OWLS
Dumbledore was trying to sort it all out. . . . What did that mean?
How much power did Dumbledore have to override the Ministry of
Magic? Was there a chance that he might be allowed back to Hog
warts, then? A small shoot of hope burgeoned in Harrys chest, almost
immediately strangled by panic  how was he supposed to refuse to
surrender his wand without doing magic? Hed have to duel with the
Ministry representatives, and if he did that, hed be lucky to escape
Azkaban, let alone expulsion.
His mind was racing. . . . He could run for it and risk being cap
tured by the Ministry, or stay put and wait for them to find him here.
He was much more tempted by the former course, but he knew that
Mr. Weasley had his best interests at heart . . . and, after all, Dumble
dore had sorted out much worse than this before. . . .
Right, Harry said, Ive changed my mind, Im staying.
He flung himself down at the kitchen table and faced Dudley and
Aunt Petunia. The Dursleys appeared taken aback at his abrupt
change of mind. Aunt Petunia glanced despairingly at Uncle Vernon.
The vein in Uncle Vernons purple temple was throbbing worse than
ever.
Who are all these ruddy owls from? he growled.
The first one was from the Ministry of Magic, expelling me, said
Harry calmly he was straining his ears to catch noises outside in case
the Ministry representatives were approaching, and it was easier and
quieter to answer Uncle Vernons questions than to have him start rag
ing and bellowing. The second one was from my friend Rons dad, he
works at the Ministry.
Ministry of Magic? bellowed Uncle Vernon. People like you in
government? Oh this explains everything, everything, no wonder the
countrys going to the dogs. . . .
When Harry did not respond, Uncle Vernon glared at him, then
spat, And why have you been expelled?


CHAPTER TWO
Because I did magic.
AHA! roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down on the top of
the fridge, which sprang open several of Dudleys lowfat snacks top
pled out and burst on the floor. So you admit it! What did you do to
Dudley?
Nothing, said Harry, slightly less calmly. That wasnt me 
Was, muttered Dudley unexpectedly, and Uncle Vernon and
Aunt Petunia instantly made flapping gestures at Harry to quiet him
while they both bent low over Dudley.
Go on, son, said Uncle Vernon, what did he do?
Tell us, darling, whispered Aunt Petunia.
Pointed his wand at me, Dudley mumbled.
Yeah, I did, but I didnt use  Harry began angrily, but . . .
SHUT UP! roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in unison.
Go on, son, repeated Uncle Vernon, mustache blowing about
furiously.
All dark, Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering. Everything dark.
And then I hheard . . . things. Inside mmy head . . .
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of utter horror.
If their least favorite thing in the world was magic, closely followed
by neighbors who cheated more than they did on the hosepipe ban,
people who heard voices were definitely in the bottom ten. They ob
viously thought Dudley was losing his mind.
What sort of things did you hear, popkin? breathed Aunt Petu
nia, very whitefaced and with tears in her eyes.
But Dudley seemed incapable of saying. He shuddered again and
shook his large blond head, and despite the sense of numb dread that
had settled on Harry since the arrival of the first owl, he felt a certain
curiosity. Dementors caused a person to relive the worst moments of
their life. . . . What would spoiled, pampered, bullying Dudley have
been forced to hear?
How come you fell over, son? said Uncle Vernon in an unnatu


A PECK OF OWLS
rally quiet voice, the kind of voice he would adopt at the bedside of a
very ill person.
Ttripped, said Dudley shakily. And then 
He gestured at his massive chest. Harry understood Dudley was re
membering the clammy cold that filled the lungs as hope and happi
ness were sucked out of you.
Horrible, croaked Dudley. Cold. Really cold.
Okay, said Uncle Vernon in a voice of forced calm, while Aunt
Petunia laid an anxious hand on Dudleys forehead to feel his temper
ature. What happened then, Dudders?
Felt . . . felt . . . felt . . . as if. . . as if . . .
As if youd never be happy again, Harry supplied tonelessly.
Yes, Dudley whispered, still trembling.
So, said Uncle Vernon, voice restored to full and considerable
volume as he straightened up. So you put some crackpot spell on my
son so hed hear voices and believe he was  was doomed to misery,
or something, did you?
How many times do I have to tell you? said Harry, temper and
voice rising together. It wasnt me! It was a couple of dementors!
A couple of whats this codswallop?
De  men  tors, said Harry slowly and clearly. Two of
them.
And what the ruddy hell are dementors?
They guard the wizard prison, Azkaban, said Aunt Petunia.
Two seconds ringing silence followed these words and then Aunt
Petunia clapped her hand over her mouth as though she had let slip a
disgusting swear word. Uncle Vernon was goggling at her. Harrys
brain reeled. Mrs. Figg was one thing  but Aunt Petunia?
How dyou know that? he asked her, astonished.
Aunt Petunia looked quite appalled with herself. She glanced at
Uncle Vernon in fearful apology, then lowered her hand slightly to re
veal her horsey teeth.


CHAPTER TWO
I heard  that awful boy  telling her about them  years ago,
she said jerkily.
If you mean my mum and dad, why dont you use their names?
said Harry loudly, but Aunt Petunia ignored him. She seemed horri
bly flustered.
Harry was stunned. Except for one outburst years ago, in the
course of which Aunt Petunia had screamed that Harrys mother had
been a freak, he had never heard her mention her sister. He was as
tounded that she had remembered this scrap of information about the
magical world for so long, when she usually put all her energies into
pretending it didnt exist.
Uncle Vernon opened his mouth, closed it again, opened it once
more, shut it, then, apparently struggling to remember how to talk,
opened it for a third time and croaked, So  so  they  er 
they  er  they actually exist, do they  er  dementywhatsits?
Aunt Petunia nodded.
Uncle Vernon looked from Aunt Petunia to Dudley to Harry as if
hoping somebody was going to shout April Fool! When nobody did,
he opened his mouth yet again, but was spared the struggle to find
more words by the arrival of the third owl of the evening, which
zoomed through the stillopen window like a feathery cannonball and
landed with a clatter on the kitchen table, causing all three of the
Dursleys to jump with fright. Harry tore a second officiallooking en
velope from the owls beak and ripped it open as the owl swooped
back out into the night.
Enough  effing  owls . . . muttered Uncle Vernon distract
edly, stomping over to the window and slamming it shut again.
Dear Mr. Potter,
Further to our letter of approximately twentytwo minutes
ago, the Ministry of Magic has revised its decision to destroy
your wand forthwith. You may retain your wand until your


A PECK OF OWLS
disciplinary hearing on th August, at which time an official
decision will be taken.
Following discussions with the Headmaster of Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, the Ministry has agreed
that the question of your expulsion will also be decided at that
time. You should therefore consider yourself suspended from
school pending further inquiries.
With best wishes,
Yours sincerely,
improper use of magic office
Ministry of Magic
Harry read this letter through three times in quick succession. The
miserable knot in his chest loosened slightly at the thought that he
was not definitely expelled, though his fears were by no means ban
ished. Everything seemed to hang on this hearing on the twelfth of
August.
Well? said Uncle Vernon, recalling Harry to his surroundings.
What now? Have they sentenced you to anything? Do your lot have
the death penalty? he added as a hopeful afterthought.
Ive got to go to a hearing, said Harry.
And theyll sentence you there?
I suppose so.
I wont give up hope, then, said Uncle Vernon nastily.
Well, if thats all, said Harry, getting to his feet. He was desperate
to be alone, to think, perhaps to send a letter to Ron, Hermione, or
Sirius.
NO, IT RUDDY WELL IS NOT ALL! bellowed Uncle Vernon.
SIT BACK DOWN!


CHAPTER TWO
What now? said Harry impatiently.
DUDLEY! roared Uncle Vernon. I want to know exactly what
happened to my son!
FINE! yelled Harry, and in his temper, red and gold sparks shot
out of the end of his wand, still clutched in his hand. All three Durs
leys flinched, looking terrified.
Dudley and I were in the alleyway between Magnolia Crescent
and Wisteria Walk, said Harry, speaking fast, fighting to control his
temper. Dudley thought hed be smart with me, I pulled out my
wand but didnt use it. Then two dementors turned up 
But what ARE dementoids? asked Uncle Vernon furiously.
What do they DO?
I told you  they suck all the happiness out of you, said Harry,
and if they get the chance, they kiss you 
Kiss you? said Uncle Vernon, his eyes popping slightly. Kiss you?
Its what they call it when they suck the soul out of your mouth.
Aunt Petunia uttered a soft scream.
His soul? They didnt take  hes still got his 
She seized Dudley by the shoulders and shook him, as though test
ing to see whether she could hear his soul rattling around inside him.
Of course they didnt get his soul, youd know if they had, said
Harry, exasperated.
Fought em off, did you, son? said Uncle Vernon loudly, with the
appearance of a man struggling to bring the conversation back onto a
plane he understood. Gave em the old onetwo, did you?
You cant give a dementor the old onetwo, said Harry through
clenched teeth.
Whys he all right, then? blustered Uncle Vernon. Why isnt he
all empty, then?
Because I used the Patronus 
WHOOSH. With a clattering, a whirring of wings, and a soft fall of
dust, a fourth owl came shooting out of the kitchen fireplace.


A PECK OF OWLS
FOR GODS SAKE! roared Uncle Vernon, pulling great clumps
of hair out of his mustache, something he hadnt been driven to in a
long time. I WILL NOT HAVE OWLS HERE, I WILL NOT
TOLERATE THIS, I TELL YOU!
But Harry was already pulling a roll of parchment from the owls
leg. He was so convinced that this letter had to be from Dumbledore,
explaining everything  the dementors, Mrs. Figg, what the Min
istry was up to, how he, Dumbledore, intended to sort everything
out  that for the first time in his life he was disappointed to see Sir
iuss handwriting. Ignoring Uncle Vernons ongoing rant about owls
and narrowing his eyes against a second cloud of dust as the most re
cent owl took off back up the chimney, Harry read Siriuss message.
Arthurs just told us whats happened.
Dont leave the house again, whatever you do.
Harry found this such an inadequate response to everything that
had happened tonight that he turned the piece of parchment over,
looking for the rest of the letter, but there was nothing there.
And now his temper was rising again. Wasnt anybody going to say
well done for fighting off two dementors singlehandedly? Both Mr.
Weasley and Sirius were acting as though hed misbehaved and they
were saving their tellingsoff until they could ascertain how much
damage had been done.
 a peck, I mean, pack of owls shooting in and out of my house
and I wont have it, boy, I wont 
I cant stop the owls coming, Harry snapped, crushing Siriuss let
ter in his fist.
I want the truth about what happened tonight! barked Uncle
Vernon. If it was demenders who hurt Dudley, how come youve
been expelled? You did youknowwhat, youve admitted it!
Harry took a deep, steadying breath. His head was beginning to


CHAPTER TWO
ache again. He wanted more than anything to get out of the kitchen,
away from the Dursleys.
I did the Patronus Charm to get rid of the dementors, he said,
forcing himself to remain calm. Its the only thing that works against
them.
But what were dementoids doing in Little Whinging? said Uncle
Vernon in tones of outrage.
Couldnt tell you, said Harry wearily. No idea.
His head was pounding in the glare of the strip lighting now. His
anger was ebbing away. He felt drained, exhausted. The Dursleys were
all staring at him.
Its you, said Uncle Vernon forcefully. Its got something to do
with you, boy, I know it. Why else would they turn up here? Why else
would they be down that alleyway? Youve got to be the only  the
only  Evidently he couldnt bring himself to say the word wizard.
The only youknowwhat for miles.
I dont know why they were here. . . .
But at these words of Uncle Vernons, Harrys exhausted brain
ground back into action. Why had the dementors come to Little
Whinging? How could it be coincidence that they had arrived in the
alleyway where Harry was? Had they been sent? Had the Ministry of
Magic lost control of the dementors, had they deserted Azkaban and
joined Voldemort, as Dumbledore had predicted they would?
These demembers guard some weirdos prison? said Uncle Ver
non, lumbering in the wake of Harrys train of thought.
Yes, said Harry.
If only his head would stop hurting, if only he could just leave the
kitchen and get to his dark bedroom and think. . . .
Oho! They were coming to arrest you! said Uncle Vernon, with
the triumphant air of a man reaching an unassailable conclusion.
Thats it, isnt it, boy? Youre on the run from the law!


A PECK OF OWLS
Of course Im not, said Harry, shaking his head as though to
scare off a fly, his mind racing now.
Then why  ?
He must have sent them, said Harry quietly, more to himself
than to Uncle Vernon.
Whats that? Who must have sent them?
Lord Voldemort, said Harry.
He registered dimly how strange it was that the Dursleys, who
flinched, winced, and squawked if they heard words like wizard,
magic, or wand, could hear the name of the most evil wizard of all
time without the slightest tremor.
Lord  hang on, said Uncle Vernon, his face screwed up, a look
of dawning comprehension in his piggy eyes. Ive heard that name
. . . that was the one who . . .
Murdered my parents, yes, Harry said.
But hes gone, said Uncle Vernon impatiently, without the slight
est sign that the murder of Harrys parents might be a painful topic to
anybody. That giant bloke said so. Hes gone.
Hes back, said Harry heavily.
It felt very strange to be standing here in Aunt Petunias surgically
clean kitchen, beside the topoftherange fridge and the widescreen
television, and talking calmly of Lord Voldemort to Uncle Vernon.
The arrival of the dementors in Little Whinging seemed to have
caused a breach in the great, invisible wall that divided the relentlessly
nonmagical world of Privet Drive and the world beyond. Harrys two
lives had somehow become fused and everything had been turned up
side down The Dursleys were asking for details about the magical
world and Mrs. Figg knew Albus Dumbledore dementors were soar
ing around Little Whinging and he might never go back to Hogwarts.
Harrys head throbbed more painfully.
Back? whispered Aunt Petunia.


CHAPTER TWO
She was looking at Harry as she had never looked at him before.
And all of a sudden, for the very first time in his life, Harry fully ap
preciated that Aunt Petunia was his mothers sister. He could not have
said why this hit him so very powerfully at this moment. All he knew
was that he was not the only person in the room who had an inkling
of what Lord Voldemort being back might mean. Aunt Petunia had
never in her life looked at him like that before. Her large, pale eyes so
unlike her sisters were not narrowed in dislike or anger They were
wide and fearful. The furious pretense that Aunt Petunia had main
tained all Harrys life  that there was no magic and no world other
than the world she inhabited with Uncle Vernon  seemed to have
fallen away.
Yes, Harry said, talking directly to Aunt Petunia now. He came
back a month ago. I saw him.
Her hands found Dudleys massive leatherclad shoulders and
clutched them.
Hang on, said Uncle Vernon, looking from his wife to Harry and
back again, apparently dazed and confused by the unprecedented un
derstanding that seemed to have sprung up between them. Hang on.
This Lord Voldythings back, you say.
Yes.
The one who murdered your parents.
Yes.
And now hes sending dismembers after you?
Looks like it, said Harry.
I see, said Uncle Vernon, looking from his whitefaced wife to
Harry and hitching up his trousers. He seemed to be swelling, his
great purple face stretching before Harrys eyes. Well, that settles it,
he said, his shirt front straining as he inflated himself, you can get out
of this house, boy!
What? said Harry.
You heard me  OUT! Uncle Vernon bellowed, and even Aunt


A PECK OF OWLS
Petunia and Dudley jumped. OUT! OUT! I shouldve done it years
ago! Owls treating the place like a rest home, puddings exploding, half
the lounge destroyed, Dudleys tail, Marge bobbing around on the
ceiling, and that flying Ford Anglia  OUT! OUT! Youve had it!
Youre history! Youre not staying here if some loonys after you, youre
not endangering my wife and son, youre not bringing trouble down
on us, if youre going the same way as your useless parents, Ive had it!
OUT!
Harry stood rooted to the spot. The letters from the Ministry,
Mr. Weasley, and Sirius were crushed in his left hand. Dont leave the
house again, whatever you do. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND
UNCLES HOUSE.
You heard me! said Uncle Vernon, bending forward now, so that
his massive purple face came closer to Harrys, so that Harry actually
felt flecks of spit hit his face. Get going! You were all keen to leave
half an hour ago! Im right behind you! Get out and never darken our
doorstep again! Why we ever kept you in the first place I dont know.
Marge was right, it should have been the orphanage, we were too
damn soft for our own good, thought we could squash it out of you,
thought we could turn you normal, but youve been rotten from the
beginning, and Ive had enough  OWLS!
The fifth owl zoomed down the chimney so fast it actually hit the
floor before zooming into the air again with a loud screech. Harry
raised his hand to seize the letter, which was in a scarlet envelope, but
it soared straight over his head, flying directly at Aunt Petunia, who let
out a scream and ducked, her arms over her face. The owl dropped the
red envelope on her head, turned, and flew straight up the chimney
again.
Harry darted forward to pick up the letter, but Aunt Petunia beat
him to it.
You can open it if you like, said Harry, but Ill hear what it says
anyway. Thats a Howler.


CHAPTER TWO
"Let go of it, Petunia! roared Uncle Vernon. Dont touch it, it
could be dangerous!
Its addressed to me, said Aunt Petunia in a shaking voice. Its
addressed to me, Vernon, look! Mrs. Petunia Dursley, The Kitchen,
Number Four, Privet Drive 
She caught her breath, horrified. The red envelope had begun to
smoke.
Open it! Harry urged her. Get it over with! Itll happen
anyway 
No 
Aunt Petunias hand was trembling. She looked wildly around the
kitchen as though looking for an escape route, but too late  the en
velope burst into flames. Aunt Petunia screamed and dropped it.
An awful voice filled the kitchen, echoing in the confined space, is
suing from the burning letter on the table.
REMEMBER MY LAST, PETUNIA.
Aunt Petunia looked as though she might faint. She sank into the
chair beside Dudley, her face in her hands. The remains of the enve
lope smoldered into ash in the silence.
What is this? Uncle Vernon said hoarsely. What  I dont 
Petunia?
Aunt Petunia said nothing. Dudley was staring stupidly at his
mother, his mouth hanging open. The silence spiraled horribly. Harry
was watching his aunt, utterly bewildered, his head throbbing fit to
burst.
Petunia, dear? said Uncle Vernon timidly. PPetunia?
She raised her head. She was still trembling. She swallowed.
The boy  the boy will have to stay, Vernon, she said weakly.
Wwhat?


A PECK OF OWLS
He stays, she said. She was not looking at Harry. She got to her
feet again.
He . . . but Petunia . . .
If we throw him out, the neighbors will talk, she said. She was re
gaining her usual brisk, snappish manner rapidly, though she was still
very pale. Theyll ask awkward questions, theyll want to know where
hes gone. Well have to keep him.
Uncle Vernon was deflating like an old tire.
But Petunia, dear 
Aunt Petunia ignored him. She turned to Harry.
Youre to stay in your room, she said. Youre not to leave the
house. Now get to bed.
Harry didnt move.
Who was that Howler from?
Dont ask questions, Aunt Petunia snapped.
Are you in touch with wizards?
I told you to get to bed!
What did it mean? Remember the last what?
Go to bed!
How come  ?
YOU HEARD YOUR AUNT, NOW GET TO BED!


C H A P T E R T H R E E
THE ADVANCED GUARD
I
 ve just been attacked by dementors and I might be expelled from
Hogwarts. I want to know whats going on and when Im going to get
out of here.
Harry copied these words onto three separate pieces of parchment
the moment he reached the desk in his dark bedroom. He addressed
the first to Sirius, the second to Ron, and the third to Hermione. His
owl, Hedwig, was off hunting her cage stood empty on the desk.
Harry paced the bedroom waiting for her to come back, his head
pounding, his brain too busy for sleep even though his eyes stung and
itched with tiredness. His back ached from carrying Dudley home,
and the two lumps on his head where the window and Dudley had hit
him were throbbing painfully.
Up and down he paced, consumed with anger and frustration,
grinding his teeth and clenching his fists, casting angry looks out at
the empty, starstrewn sky every time he passed the window. Demen
tors sent to get him, Mrs. Figg and Mundungus Fletcher tailing him
in secret, then suspension from Hogwarts and a hearing at the Min
istry of Magic  and still no one was telling him what was going on.


THE ADVANCED GUARD
And what, what, had that Howler been about? Whose voice had
echoed so horribly, so menacingly, through the kitchen?
Why was he still trapped here without information? Why was
everyone treating him like some naughty kid? Dont do any more
magic, stay in the house. . . .
He kicked his school trunk as he passed it, but far from relieving his
anger he felt worse, as he now had a sharp pain in his toe to deal with
in addition to the pain in the rest of his body.
Just as he limped past the window, Hedwig soared through it with
a soft rustle of wings like a small ghost.
About time! Harry snarled, as she landed lightly on top of her
cage. You can put that down, Ive got work for you!
Hedwigs large round amber eyes gazed reproachfully at him over
the dead frog clamped in her beak.
Come here, said Harry, picking up the three small rolls of parch
ment and a leather thong and tying the scrolls to her scaly leg. Take
these straight to Sirius, Ron, and Hermione and dont come back here
without good long replies. Keep pecking them till theyve written
decentlength answers if youve got to. Understand?
Hedwig gave a muffled hooting noise, beak still full of frog.
Get going, then, said Harry.
She took off immediately. The moment shed gone, Harry threw
himself down onto his bed without undressing and stared at the dark
ceiling. In addition to every other miserable feeling, he now felt guilty
that hed been irritable with Hedwig she was the only friend he had at
number four, Privet Drive. But hed make it up to her when she came
back with Siriuss, Rons, and Hermiones answers.
They were bound to write back quickly they couldnt possibly ig
nore a dementor attack. Hed probably wake up tomorrow to three fat
letters full of sympathy and plans for his immediate removal to the
Burrow. And with that comforting idea, sleep rolled over him, stifling
all further thought.


CHAPTER THREE



But Hedwig didnt return next morning. Harry spent the day in his
bedroom, leaving it only to go to the bathroom. Three times that day
Aunt Petunia shoved food into his room through the cat flap Uncle
Vernon had installed three summers ago. Every time Harry heard her
approaching he tried to question her about the Howler, but he might
as well have interrogated the doorknob for all the answers he got.
Otherwise the Dursleys kept well clear of his bedroom. Harry couldnt
see the point of forcing his company on them another row would
achieve nothing except perhaps making him so angry hed perform
more illegal magic.
So it went on for three whole days. Harry was filled alternately with
restless energy that made him unable to settle to anything, during
which he paced his bedroom again, furious at the whole lot of them
for leaving him to stew in this mess, and with a lethargy so complete
that he could lie on his bed for an hour at a time, staring dazedly into
space, aching with dread at the thought of the Ministry hearing.
What if they ruled against him? What if he was expelled and his
wand was snapped in half? What would he do, where would he go?
He could not return to living fulltime with the Dursleys, not now
that he knew the other world, the one to which he really belonged.
. . . Was it possible that he might be able to move into Siriuss house,
as Sirius had suggested a year ago, before he had been forced to flee
from the Ministry himself? Would he be allowed to live there alone,
given that he was still underage? Or would the matter of where he
went next be decided for him had his breach of the International
Statute of Secrecy been severe enough to land him in a cell in Azka
ban? Whenever this thought occurred, Harry invariably slid off his
bed and began pacing again.
On the fourth night after Hedwigs departure Harry was lying in
one of his apathetic phases, staring at the ceiling, his exhausted mind


THE ADVANCED GUARD
quite blank, when his uncle entered his bedroom. Harry looked
slowly around at him. Uncle Vernon was wearing his best suit and an
expression of enormous smugness.
Were going out, he said.
Sorry?
We  that is to say, your aunt, Dudley, and I  are going out.
Fine, said Harry dully, looking back at the ceiling.
You are not to leave your bedroom while we are away.
Okay.
You are not to touch the television, the stereo, or any of our
possessions.
Right.
You are not to steal food from the fridge.
Okay.
I am going to lock your door.
You do that.
Uncle Vernon glared at Harry, clearly suspicious of this lack of ar
gument, then stomped out of the room and closed the door behind
him. Harry heard the key turn in the lock and Uncle Vernons foot
steps walking heavily down the stairs. A few minutes later he heard the
slamming of car doors, the rumble of an engine, and the unmistakable
sound of the car sweeping out of the drive.
Harry had no particular feeling about the Dursleys leaving. It made
no difference to him whether they were in the house or not. He could
not even summon the energy to get up and turn on his bedroom light.
The room grew steadily darker around him as he lay listening to the
night sounds through the window he kept open all the time, waiting
for the blessed moment when Hedwig returned.
The empty house creaked around him. The pipes gurgled. Harry
lay there in a kind of stupor, thinking of nothing, suspended in
misery.
And then, quite distinctly, he heard a crash in the kitchen below.


CHAPTER THREE
He sat bolt upright, listening intently. The Dursleys couldnt be
back, it was much too soon, and in any case he hadnt heard their car.
There was silence for a few seconds, and then he heard voices.
Burglars, he thought, sliding off the bed onto his feet  but a split
second later it occurred to him that burglars would keep their voices
down, and whoever was moving around in the kitchen was certainly
not troubling to do so.
He snatched up his wand from his bedside table and stood facing
his bedroom door, listening with all his might. Next moment he
jumped as the lock gave a loud click and his door swung open.
Harry stood motionless, staring through the open door at the dark
upstairs landing, straining his ears for further sounds, but none came.
He hesitated for a moment and then moved swiftly and silently out of
his room to the head of the stairs.
His heart shot upward into his throat. There were people standing
in the shadowy hall below, silhouetted against the streetlight glowing
through the glass door eight or nine of them, all, as far as he could
see, looking up at him.
Lower your wand, boy, before you take someones eye out, said a
low, growling voice.
Harrys heart was thumping uncontrollably. He knew that voice,
but he did not lower his wand.
Professor Moody? he said uncertainly.
I dont know so much about Professor,  growled the voice, never
got round to much teaching, did I? Get down here, we want to see you
properly.
Harry lowered his wand slightly but did not relax his grip on it, nor
did he move. He had very good reason to be suspicious. He had re
cently spent nine months in what he had thought was MadEye
Moodys company only to find out that it wasnt Moody at all, but an
impostor an impostor, moreover, who had tried to kill Harry before


THE ADVANCED GUARD
being unmasked. But before he could make a decision about what to
do next, a second, slightly hoarse voice floated upstairs.
Its all right, Harry. Weve come to take you away.
Harrys heart leapt. He knew that voice too, though he hadnt
heard it for more than a year.
PProfessor Lupin? he said disbelievingly. Is that you?
Why are we all standing in the dark? said a third voice, this one
completely unfamiliar, a womans. Lumos.
A wand tip flared, illuminating the hall with magical light. Harry
blinked. The people below were crowded around the foot of the stairs,
gazing intently up at him, some craning their heads for a better look.
Remus Lupin stood nearest to him. Though still quite young,
Lupin looked tired and rather ill he had more gray hair than when
Harry had said goodbye to him, and his robes were more patched
and shabbier than ever. Nevertheless, he was smiling broadly at Harry,
who tried to smile back through his shock.
Oooh, he looks just like I thought he would, said the witch who
was holding her lit wand aloft. She looked the youngest there she had
a pale heartshaped face, dark twinkling eyes, and short spiky hair that
was a violent shade of violet. Wotcher, Harry!
Yeah, I see what you mean, Remus, said a bald black wizard
standing farthest back he had a deep, slow voice and wore a single
gold hoop in his ear. He looks exactly like James.
Except the eyes, said a wheezyvoiced, silverhaired wizard at the
back. Lilys eyes.
MadEye Moody, who had long grizzled gray hair and a large
chunk missing from his nose, was squinting suspiciously at Harry
through his mismatched eyes. One of the eyes was small, dark, and
beady, the other large, round, and electric blue  the magical eye that
could see through walls, doors, and the back of Moodys own head.
Are you quite sure its him, Lupin? he growled. Itd be a nice


CHAPTER THREE
lookout if we bring back some Death Eater impersonating him. We
ought to ask him something only the real Potter would know. Unless
anyone brought any Veritaserum?
Harry, what form does your Patronus take? said Lupin.
A stag, said Harry nervously.
Thats him, MadEye, said Lupin.
Harry descended the stairs, very conscious of everybody still staring
at him, stowing his wand into the back pocket of his jeans as he came.
Dont put your wand there, boy! roared Moody. What if it ig
nited? Better wizards than you have lost buttocks, you know!
Who dyou know whos lost a buttock? the violethaired woman
asked MadEye interestedly.
Never you mind, you just keep your wand out of your back
pocket! growled MadEye. Elementary wand safety, nobody bothers
about it anymore. . . . He stumped off toward the kitchen. And I saw
that, he added irritably, as the woman rolled her eyes at the ceiling.
Lupin held out his hand and shook Harrys.
How are you? he asked, looking at Harry closely.
Ffine . . .
Harry could hardly believe this was real. Four weeks with nothing,
not the tiniest hint of a plan to remove him from Privet Drive, and
suddenly a whole bunch of wizards was standing matteroffactly in
the house as though this were a longstanding arrangement. He
glanced at the people surrounding Lupin they were still gazing avidly
at him. He felt very conscious of the fact that he had not combed his
hair for four days.
Im  youre really lucky the Dursleys are out . . . he mumbled.
Lucky, ha! said the violethaired woman. It was me that lured
them out of the way. Sent a letter by Muggle post telling them theyd
been shortlisted for the AllEngland BestKept Suburban Lawn
Competition. Theyre heading off to the prizegiving right now. . . .
Or they think they are.


THE ADVANCED GUARD
Harry had a fleeting vision of Uncle Vernons face when he realized
there was no AllEngland BestKept Suburban Lawn Competition.
We are leaving, arent we? he asked. Soon?
Almost at once, said Lupin, were just waiting for the allclear.
Where are we going? The Burrow? Harry asked hopefully.
Not the Burrow, no, said Lupin, motioning Harry toward the
kitchen the little knot of wizards followed, all still eyeing Harry curi
ously. Too risky. Weve set up headquarters somewhere undetectable.
Its taken a while. . . .
MadEye Moody was now sitting at the kitchen table swigging
from a hip flask, his magical eye spinning in all directions, taking in
the Dursleys many laborsaving appliances.
This is Alastor Moody, Harry, Lupin continued, pointing toward
Moody.
Yeah, I know, said Harry uncomfortably it felt odd to be intro
duced to somebody hed thought hed known for a year.
And this is Nymphadora 
Dont call me Nymphadora, Remus, said the young witch with a
shudder. Its Tonks.
 Nymphadora Tonks, who prefers to be known by her surname
only, finished Lupin.
So would you if your fool of a mother had called you Nympha
dora,  muttered Tonks.
And this is Kingsley Shacklebolt  he indicated the tall black
wizard, who bowed  Elphias Doge  the wheezyvoiced wizard
nodded  Dedalus Diggle 
Weve met before, squeaked the excitable Diggle, dropping his
top hat.
 Emmeline Vance  a stately looking witch in an emerald
green shawl inclined her head  Sturgis Podmore  a squarejawed
wizard with thick, strawcolored hair winked  and Hestia Jones. A
pinkcheeked, blackhaired witch waved from next to the toaster.


CHAPTER THREE
Harry inclined his head awkwardly at each of them as they were in
troduced. He wished they would look at something other than him it
was as though he had suddenly been ushered onstage. He also won
dered why so many of them were there.
A surprising number of people volunteered to come and get you,
said Lupin, as though he had read Harrys mind the corners of his
mouth twitched slightly.
Yeah, well, the more the better, said Moody darkly. Were your
guard, Potter.
Were just waiting for the signal to tell us its safe to set off, said
Lupin, glancing out of the kitchen window. Weve got about fifteen
minutes.
Very clean, arent they, these Muggles? said the witch called
Tonks, who was looking around the kitchen with great interest. My
dads Muggleborn and hes a right old slob. I suppose it varies, just
like with wizards?
Er  yeah, said Harry. Look  he turned back to Lupin 
whats going on, I havent heard anything from anyone, whats Vol  ?
Several of the witches and wizards made odd hissing noises
Dedalus Diggle dropped his hat again, and Moody growled, Shut up!
What? said Harry.
Were not discussing anything here, its too risky, said Moody,
turning his normal eye on Harry his magical eye remained pointing
up at the ceiling. Damn it, he added angrily, putting a hand up to
the magical eye, it keeps sticking  ever since that scum wore it 
And with a nasty squelching sound much like a plunger being
pulled from a sink, he popped out his eye.
MadEye, you do know thats disgusting, dont you? said Tonks
conversationally.
Get me a glass of water, would you, Harry? asked Moody.
Harry crossed to the dishwasher, took out a clean glass, and filled it


THE ADVANCED GUARD
with water at the sink, still watched eagerly by the band of wizards.
Their relentless staring was starting to annoy him.
Cheers, said Moody, when Harry handed him the glass. He
dropped the magical eyeball into the water and prodded it up and
down the eye whizzed around, staring at them all in turn. I want
threehundredandsixty degrees visibility on the return journey.
Howre we getting  wherever were going? Harry asked.
Brooms, said Lupin. Only way. Youre too young to Apparate,
theyll be watching the Floo Network, and its more than our lifes
worth to set up an unauthorized Portkey.
Remus says youre a good flier, said Kingsley Shacklebolt in his
deep voice.
Hes excellent, said Lupin, who was checking his watch. Any
way, youd better go and get packed, Harry, we want to be ready to go
when the signal comes.
Ill come and help you, said Tonks brightly.
She followed Harry back into the hall and up the stairs, looking
around with much curiosity and interest.
Funny place, she said, its a bit too clean, dyou know what I
mean? Bit unnatural. Oh, this is better, she added, as they entered
Harrys bedroom and he turned on the light.
His room was certainly much messier than the rest of the house.
Confined to it for four days in a very bad mood, Harry had not both
ered tidying up after himself. Most of the books he owned were strewn
over the floor where hed tried to distract himself with each in turn and
thrown it aside. Hedwigs cage needed cleaning out and was starting to
smell, and his trunk lay open, revealing a jumbled mixture of Muggle
clothes and wizards robes that had spilled onto the floor around it.
Harry started picking up books and throwing them hastily into his
trunk. Tonks paused at his open wardrobe to look critically at her re
flection in the mirror on the inside of the door.


CHAPTER THREE
You know, I dont think purples really my color, she said pen
sively, tugging at a lock of spiky hair. Dyou think it makes me look
a bit peaky?
Er  said Harry, looking up at her over the top of Quidditch
Teams of Britain and Ireland.
Yeah, it does, said Tonks decisively. She screwed up her eyes in a
strained expression as though she were struggling to remember some
thing. A second later, her hair had turned bubblegum pink.
How did you do that? said Harry, gaping at her as she opened her
eyes again.
Im a Metamorphmagus, she said, looking back at her reflection
and turning her head so that she could see her hair from all directions.
It means I can change my appearance at will, she added, spotting
Harrys puzzled expression in the mirror behind her. I was born one.
I got top marks in Concealment and Disguise during Auror training
without any study at all, it was great.
Youre an Auror? said Harry, impressed. Being a Dark wizard
catcher was the only career hed ever considered after Hogwarts.
Yeah, said Tonks, looking proud. Kingsley is as well hes a bit
higher up than I am, though. I only qualified a year ago. Nearly failed
on Stealth and Tracking, Im dead clumsy, did you hear me break that
plate when we arrived downstairs?
Can you learn how to be a Metamorphmagus? Harry asked her,
straightening up, completely forgetting about packing.
Tonks chuckled.
Bet you wouldnt mind hiding that scar sometimes, eh?
Her eyes found the lightningshaped scar on Harrys forehead.
No, I wouldnt mind, Harry mumbled, turning away. He did not
like people staring at his scar.
Well, youll have to learn the hard way, Im afraid, said Tonks.
Metamorphmagi are really rare, theyre born, not made. Most wiz
ards need to use a wand or potions to change their appearance. . . .


THE ADVANCED GUARD
But weve got to get going, Harry, were supposed to be packing, she
added guiltily, looking around at all the mess on the floor.
Oh  yeah, said Harry, grabbing up a few more books.
Dont be stupid, itll be much quicker if I  pack! cried Tonks,
waving her wand in a long, sweeping movement over the floor.
Books, clothes, telescope, and scales all soared into the air and flew
pellmell into the trunk.
Its not very neat, said Tonks, walking over to the trunk and look
ing down at the jumble inside. My mums got this knack of getting
stuff to fit itself in neatly  she even gets the socks to fold them
selves  but Ive never mastered how she does it  its a kind of
flick 
She flicked her wand hopefully one of Harrys socks gave a feeble
sort of wiggle and flopped back on top of the mess within.
Ah, well, said Tonks, slamming the trunks lid shut, at least its all
in. That could do with a bit of cleaning, too  Scourgify  She
pointed her wand at Hedwigs cage a few feathers and droppings van
ished. Well, thats a bit better  Ive never quite got the hang of
these sort of householdy spells. Right  got everything? Cauldron?
Broom? Wow! A Firebolt?
Her eyes widened as they fell on the broomstick in Harrys right
hand. It was his pride and joy, a gift from Sirius, an international stan
dard broomstick.
And Im still riding a Comet Two Sixty, said Tonks enviously. Ah
well . . . wand still in your jeans? Both buttocks still on? Okay, lets go.
Locomotor Trunk.
Harrys trunk rose a few inches into the air. Holding her wand like a
conductors baton, Tonks made it hover across the room and out of the
door ahead of them, Hedwigs cage in her left hand. Harry followed her
down the stairs carrying his broomstick.
Back in the kitchen, Moody had replaced his eye, which was
spinning so fast after its cleaning it made Harry feel sick. Kingsley


CHAPTER THREE
Shacklebolt and Sturgis Podmore were examining the microwave and
Hestia Jones was laughing at a potato peeler she had come across while
rummaging in the drawers. Lupin was sealing a letter addressed to the
Dursleys.
Excellent, said Lupin, looking up as Tonks and Harry entered.
Weve got about a minute, I think. We should probably get out into
the garden so were ready. Harry, Ive left a letter telling your aunt and
uncle not to worry 
They wont, said Harry.
That youre safe 
Thatll just depress them.
 and youll see them next summer.
Do I have to?
Lupin smiled but made no answer.
Come here, boy, said Moody gruffly, beckoning Harry toward
him with his wand. I need to Disillusion you.
You need to what? said Harry nervously.
Disillusionment Charm, said Moody, raising his wand. Lupin
says youve got an Invisibility Cloak, but it wont stay on while were
flying thisll disguise you better. Here you go 
He rapped Harry hard on the top of the head and Harry felt a cu
rious sensation as though Moody had just smashed an egg there cold
trickles seemed to be running down his body from the point the wand
had struck.
Nice one, MadEye, said Tonks appreciatively, staring at Harrys
midriff.
Harry looked down at his body, or rather, what had been his body,
for it didnt look anything like his anymore. It was not invisible it had
simply taken on the exact color and texture of the kitchen unit behind
him. He seemed to have become a human chameleon.
Come on, said Moody, unlocking the back door with his wand.
They all stepped outside onto Uncle Vernons beautifully kept lawn.


THE ADVANCED GUARD
Clear night, grunted Moody, his magical eye scanning the heav
ens. Couldve done with a bit more cloud cover. Right, you, he
barked at Harry, were going to be flying in close formation. Tonksll
be right in front of you, keep close on her tail. Lupinll be covering
you from below. Im going to be behind you. The restll be circling us.
We dont break ranks for anything, got me? If one of us is killed 
Is that likely? Harry asked apprehensively, but Moody ignored
him.
 the others keep flying, dont stop, dont break ranks. If they
take out all of us and you survive, Harry, the rear guard are standing
by to take over keep flying east and theyll join you.
Stop being so cheerful, MadEye, hell think were not taking this
seriously, said Tonks, as she strapped Harrys trunk and Hedwigs
cage into a harness hanging from her broom.
Im just telling the boy the plan, growled Moody. Our jobs to
deliver him safely to headquarters and if we die in the attempt 
No ones going to die, said Kingsley Shacklebolt in his deep,
calming voice.
Mount your brooms, thats the first signal! said Lupin sharply,
pointing into the sky.
Far, far above them, a shower of bright red sparks had flared among
the stars. Harry recognized them at once as wand sparks. He swung
his right leg over his Firebolt, gripped its handle tightly, and felt it
vibrating very slightly, as though it was as keen as he was to be up in
the air once more.
Second signal, lets go! said Lupin loudly, as more sparks, green
this time, exploded high above them.
Harry kicked off hard from the ground. The cool night air rushed
through his hair as the neat square gardens of Privet Drive fell away,
shrinking rapidly into a patchwork of dark greens and blacks, and
every thought of the Ministry hearing was swept from his mind as
though the rush of air had blown it out of his head. He felt as though


CHAPTER THREE
his heart was going to explode with pleasure he was flying again, fly
ing away from Privet Drive as hed been fantasizing about all summer,
he was going home. . . . For a few glorious moments, all his problems
seemed to recede into nothing, insignificant in the vast, starry sky.
Hard left, hard left, theres a Muggle looking up! shouted Moody
from behind him. Tonks swerved and Harry followed her, watching
his trunk swinging wildly beneath her broom. We need more height.
. . . Give it another quarter of a mile!
Harrys eyes watered in the chill as they soared upward he could see
nothing below now but tiny pinpricks of light that were car headlights
and streetlamps. Two of those tiny lights might belong to Uncle Ver
nons car. . . . The Dursleys would be heading back to their empty
house right now, full of rage about the nonexistent lawn competition
. . . and Harry laughed aloud at the thought, though his voice was
drowned by the flapping of the others robes, the creaking of the har
ness holding his trunk and the cage, the whoosh of the wind in their
ears as they sped through the air. He had not felt this alive in a month,
or this happy. . . .
Bearing south! shouted MadEye. Town ahead!
They soared right, so that they did not pass directly over the glit
tering spiderweb of lights below.
Bear southeast and keep climbing, theres some low cloud ahead
we can lose ourselves in! called Moody.
Were not going through clouds! shouted Tonks angrily. Well
get soaked, MadEye!
Harry was relieved to hear her say this his hands were growing
numb on the Firebolts handle. He wished he had thought to put on a
coat he was starting to shiver.
They altered their course every now and then according to Mad
Eyes instructions. Harrys eyes were screwed up against the rush of icy
wind that was starting to make his ears ache. He could remember be
ing this cold on a broom only once before, during the Quidditch


THE ADVANCED GUARD
match against Hufflepuff in his third year, which had taken place in a
storm. The guard around him was circling continuously like giant
birds of prey. Harry lost track of time. He wondered how long they
had been flying it felt like an hour at least.
Turning southwest! yelled Moody. We want to avoid the
motorway!
Harry was now so chilled that he thought longingly for a moment
of the snug, dry interiors of the cars streaming along below, then, even
more longingly, of traveling by Floo powder it might be uncomfort
able to spin around in fireplaces but it was at least warm in the flames.
. . . Kingsley Shacklebolt swooped around him, bald pate and earring
gleaming slightly in the moonlight. . . . Now Emmeline Vance was on
his right, her wand out, her head turning left and right . . . then she
too swooped over him, to be replaced by Sturgis Podmore. . . .
We ought to double back for a bit, just to make sure were not be
ing followed! Moody shouted.
ARE YOU MAD, MADEYE? Tonks screamed from the front.
Were all frozen to our brooms! If we keep going off course were not
going to get there until next week! Were nearly there now!
Time to start the descent! came Lupins voice. Follow Tonks,
Harry!
Harry followed Tonks into a dive. They were heading for the largest
collection of lights he had yet seen, a huge, sprawling, crisscrossing
mass, glittering in lines and grids, interspersed with patches of deep
est black. Lower and lower they flew, until Harry could see individual
headlights and streetlamps, chimneys, and television aerials. He
wanted to reach the ground very much, though he felt sure that some
one would have to unfreeze him from his broom.
Here we go! called Tonks, and a few seconds later she had landed.
Harry touched down right behind her and dismounted on a patch
of unkempt grass in the middle of a small square. Tonks was already
unbuckling Harrys trunk. Shivering, Harry looked around. The grimy


CHAPTER THREE
fronts of the surrounding houses were not welcoming some of them
had broken windows, glimmering dully in the light from the street
lamps, paint was peeling from many of the doors, and heaps of rubbish
lay outside several sets of front steps.
Where are we? Harry asked, but Lupin said quietly, In a minute.
Moody was rummaging in his cloak, his gnarled hands clumsy with
cold.
Got it, he muttered, raising what looked like a silver cigarette
lighter into the air and clicking it.
The nearest streetlamp went out with a pop. He clicked the un
lighter again the next lamp went out. He kept clicking until every
lamp in the square was extinguished and the only light in the square
came from curtained windows and the sickle moon overhead.
Borrowed it from Dumbledore, growled Moody, pocketing the
PutOuter. Thatll take care of any Muggles looking out of the win
dow, see? Now, come on, quick.
He took Harry by the arm and led him from the patch of grass,
across the road, and onto the pavement. Lupin and Tonks followed,
carrying Harrys trunk between them, the rest of the guard, all with
their wands out, flanking them.
The muffled pounding of a stereo was coming from an upper win
dow in the nearest house. A pungent smell of rotting rubbish came
from the pile of bulging binbags just inside the broken gate.
Here, Moody muttered, thrusting a piece of parchment toward
Harrys Disillusioned hand and holding his lit wand close to it, so as
to illuminate the writing. Read quickly and memorize.
Harry looked down at the piece of paper. The narrow handwriting
was vaguely familiar. It said
The headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix may be found at
number twelve, Grimmauld Place, London.


C H A P T E R F O U R
NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
W
hats the Order of the  ? Harry began.
Not here, boy! snarled Moody. Wait till were inside!
He pulled the piece of parchment out of Harrys hand and set fire
to it with his wand tip. As the message curled into flames and floated
to the ground, Harry looked around at the houses again. They were
standing outside number eleven he looked to the left and saw num
ber ten to the right, however, was number thirteen.
But wheres  ?
Think about what youve just memorized, said Lupin quietly.
Harry thought, and no sooner had he reached the part about num
ber twelve, Grimmauld Place, than a battered door emerged out of
nowhere between numbers eleven and thirteen, followed swiftly by
dirty walls and grimy windows. It was as though an extra house had
inflated, pushing those on either side out of its way. Harry gaped at it.
The stereo in number eleven thudded on. Apparently the Muggles in
side hadnt even felt anything.
Come on, hurry, growled Moody, prodding Harry in the back.


CHAPTER FOUR
Harry walked up the worn stone steps, staring at the newly materi
alized door. Its black paint was shabby and scratched. The silver door
knocker was in the form of a twisted serpent. There was no keyhole or
letterbox.
Lupin pulled out his wand and tapped the door once. Harry heard
many loud, metallic clicks and what sounded like the clatter of a
chain. The door creaked open.
Get in quick, Harry, Lupin whispered. But dont go far inside
and dont touch anything.
Harry stepped over the threshold into the almost total darkness of
the hall. He could smell damp, dust, and a sweetish, rotting smell the
place had the feeling of a derelict building. He looked over his shoul
der and saw the others filing in behind him, Lupin and Tonks carrying
his trunk and Hedwigs cage. Moody was standing on the top step and
releasing the balls of light the PutOuter had stolen from the street
lamps they flew back to their bulbs and the square beyond glowed
momentarily with orange light before Moody limped inside and
closed the front door, so that the darkness in the hall became complete.
Here 
He rapped Harry hard over the head with his wand Harry felt as
though something hot was trickling down his back this time and
knew that the Disillusionment Charm must have lifted.
Now stay still, everyone, while I give us a bit of light in here,
Moody whispered.
The others hushed voices were giving Harry an odd feeling of fore
boding it was as though they had just entered the house of a dying
person. He heard a soft hissing noise and then oldfashioned gas
lamps sputtered into life all along the walls, casting a flickering insub
stantial light over the peeling wallpaper and threadbare carpet of a
long, gloomy hallway, where a cobwebby chandelier glimmered over
head and ageblackened portraits hung crooked on the walls. Harry


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
heard something scuttling behind the baseboard. Both the chandelier
and the candelabra on a rickety table nearby were shaped like serpents.
There were hurried footsteps and Rons mother, Mrs. Weasley,
emerged from a door at the far end of the hall. She was beaming in
welcome as she hurried toward them, though Harry noticed that she
was rather thinner and paler than she had been last time he had seen
her.
Oh, Harry, its lovely to see you! she whispered, pulling him into
a ribcracking hug before holding him at arms length and examining
him critically. Youre looking peaky you need feeding up, but youll
have to wait a bit for dinner, Im afraid. . . .
She turned to the gang of wizards behind him and whispered ur
gently, Hes just arrived, the meetings started. . . .
The wizards behind Harry all made noises of interest and excite
ment and began filing past Harry toward the door through which
Mrs. Weasley had just come Harry made to follow Lupin, but Mrs.
Weasley held him back.
No, Harry, the meetings only for members of the Order. Ron and
Hermione are upstairs, you can wait with them until the meetings
over and then well have dinner. And keep your voice down in the
hall, she added in an urgent whisper.
Why?
I dont want to wake anything up.
What dyou  ?
Ill explain later, Ive got to hurry, Im supposed to be at the meet
ing  Ill just show you where youre sleeping.
Pressing her finger to her lips, she led him on tiptoes past a pair of
long, motheaten curtains, behind which Harry supposed there must
be another door, and after skirting a large umbrella stand that looked
as though it had been made from a severed trolls leg, they started up
the dark staircase, passing a row of shrunken heads mounted on


CHAPTER FOUR
plaques on the wall. A closer look showed Harry that the heads be
longed to houseelves. All of them had the same rather snoutlike nose.
Harrys bewilderment deepened with every step he took. What on
earth were they doing in a house that looked as though it belonged to
the Darkest of wizards?
Mrs. Weasley, why  ?
Ron and Hermione will explain everything, dear, Ive really got to
dash, Mrs. Weasley whispered distractedly. There  they had
reached the second landing  youre the door on the right. Ill call
you when its over.
And she hurried off downstairs again.
Harry crossed the dingy landing, turned the bedroom doorknob,
which was shaped like a serpents head, and opened the door.
He caught a brief glimpse of a gloomy highceilinged, twinbedded
room, then there was a loud twittering noise, followed by an even
louder shriek, and his vision was completely obscured by a large quan
tity of very bushy hair  Hermione had thrown herself onto him in a
hug that nearly knocked him flat, while Rons tiny owl, Pigwidgeon,
zoomed excitedly round and round their heads.
HARRY! Ron, hes here, Harrys here! We didnt hear you arrive!
Oh, how are you? Are you all right? Have you been furious with us? I
bet you have, I know our letters were useless  but we couldnt tell
you anything, Dumbledore made us swear we wouldnt, oh, weve got
so much to tell you, and youve got to tell us  the dementors! When
we heard  and that Ministry hearing  its just outrageous, Ive
looked it all up, they cant expel you, they just cant, theres provision
in the Decree for the Restriction of Underage Sorcery for the use of
magic in lifethreatening situations 
Let him breathe, Hermione, said Ron, grinning, closing the door
behind Harry. He seemed to have grown several more inches during
their month apart, making him taller and more gangly looking than
ever, though the long nose, bright red hair, and freckles were the same.


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
Hermione, still beaming, let go of Harry, but before she could say
another word there was a soft whooshing sound and something white
soared from the top of a dark wardrobe and landed gently on Harrys
shoulder.
Hedwig!
The snowy owl clicked her beak and nibbled his ear affectionately
as Harry stroked her feathers.
Shes been in a right state, said Ron. Pecked us half to death
when she brought your last letters, look at this 
He showed Harry the index finger of his right hand, which sported
a halfhealed but clearly deep cut.
Oh yeah, Harry said. Sorry about that, but I wanted answers,
you know. . . .
We wanted to give them to you, mate, said Ron. Hermione was
going spare, she kept saying youd do something stupid if you were
stuck all on your own without news, but Dumbledore made us 
 swear not to tell me, said Harry. Yeah, Hermiones already
said.
The warm glow that had flared inside him at the sight of his two
best friends was extinguished as something icy flooded the pit of his
stomach. All of a sudden  after yearning to see them for a solid
month  he felt he would rather Ron and Hermione left him alone.
There was a strained silence in which Harry stroked Hedwig auto
matically, not looking at either of the others.
He seemed to think it was best, said Hermione rather breath
lessly. Dumbledore, I mean.
Right, said Harry. He noticed that her hands too bore the marks
of Hedwigs beak and found that he was not at all sorry.
I think he thought you were safest with the Muggles  Ron
began.
Yeah? said Harry, raising his eyebrows. Have either of you been
attacked by dementors this summer?


CHAPTER FOUR
Well, no  but thats why hes had people from the Order of the
Phoenix tailing you all the time 
Harry felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had just missed a step
going downstairs. So everyone had known he was being followed ex
cept him.
Didnt work that well, though, did it? said Harry, doing his
utmost to keep his voice even. Had to look after myself after all,
didnt I?
He was so angry, said Hermione in an almost awestruck voice.
Dumbledore. We saw him. When he found out Mundungus had left
before his shift had ended. He was scary.
Well, Im glad he left, Harry said coldly. If he hadnt, I wouldnt
have done magic and Dumbledore would probably have left me at
Privet Drive all summer.
Arent you . . . arent you worried about the Ministry of Magic
hearing? said Hermione quietly.
No, Harry lied defiantly. He walked away from them, looking
around, with Hedwig nestled contentedly on his shoulder, but this
room was not likely to raise his spirits. It was dank and dark. A blank
stretch of canvas in an ornate picture frame was all that relieved the
bareness of the peeling walls and as Harry passed it he thought he
heard someone lurking out of sight snigger.
So whys Dumbledore been so keen to keep me in the dark?
Harry asked, still trying hard to keep his voice casual. Did you 
er  bother to ask him at all?
He glanced up just in time to see them exchanging a look that told
him he was behaving just as they had feared he would. It did nothing
to improve his temper.
We told Dumbledore we wanted to tell you what was going on,
said Ron. We did, mate. But hes really busy now, weve only seen
him twice since we came here and he didnt have much time, he just


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
made us swear not to tell you important stuff when we wrote, he said
the owls might be intercepted 
He could stillve kept me informed if hed wanted to, Harry said
shortly. Youre not telling me he doesnt know ways to send messages
without owls.
Hermione glanced at Ron and then said, I thought that too. But
he didnt want you to know anything.
Maybe he thinks I cant be trusted, said Harry, watching their ex
pressions.
Dont be thick, said Ron, looking highly disconcerted.
Or that I cant take care of myself 
Of course he doesnt think that! said Hermione anxiously.
So how come I have to stay at the Dursleys while you two get to
join in everything thats going on here? said Harry, the words tum
bling over one another in a rush, his voice growing louder with every
word. How come you two are allowed to know everything thats go
ing on  ?
Were not! Ron interrupted. Mum wont let us near the meet
ings, she says were too young 
But before he knew it, Harry was shouting.
SO YOU HAVENT BEEN IN THE MEETINGS, BIG DEAL!
YOUVE STILL BEEN HERE, HAVENT YOU? YOUVE STILL
BEEN TOGETHER! ME, IVE BEEN STUCK AT THE DURS
LEYS FOR A MONTH! AND IVE HANDLED MORE THAN
YOU TWOVE EVER MANAGED AND DUMBLEDORE
KNOWS IT  WHO SAVED THE SORCERERS STONE?
WHO GOT RID OF RIDDLE? WHO SAVED BOTH YOUR
SKINS FROM THE DEMENTORS?
Every bitter and resentful thought that Harry had had in the past
month was pouring out of him his frustration at the lack of news, the
hurt that they had all been together without him, his fury at being


CHAPTER FOUR
followed and not told about it All the feelings he was halfashamed of
finally burst their boundaries. Hedwig took fright at the noise and
soared off on top of the wardrobe again Pigwidgeon twittered in
alarm and zoomed even faster around their heads.
WHO HAD TO GET PAST DRAGONS AND SPHINXES
AND EVERY OTHER FOUL THING LAST YEAR? WHO SAW
HIM COME BACK? WHO HAD TO ESCAPE FROM HIM? ME!
Ron was standing there with his mouth halfopen, clearly stunned
and at a loss for anything to say, while Hermione looked on the verge
of tears.
BUT WHY SHOULD I KNOW WHATS GOING ON? WHY
SHOULD ANYONE BOTHER TO TELL ME WHATS BEEN
HAPPENING?
Harry, we wanted to tell you, we really did  Hermione began.
CANTVE WANTED TO THAT MUCH, CAN YOU, OR
YOUD HAVE SENT ME AN OWL, BUT DUMBLEDORE
MADE YOU SWEAR 
Well, he did 
FOUR WEEKS IVE BEEN STUCK IN PRIVET DRIVE,
NICKING PAPERS OUT OF BINS TO TRY AND FIND OUT
WHATS BEEN GOING ON 
We wanted to 
I SUPPOSE YOUVE BEEN HAVING A REAL LAUGH,
HAVENT YOU, ALL HOLED UP HERE TOGETHER 
No, honest 
Harry, were really sorry! said Hermione desperately, her eyes now
sparkling with tears. Youre absolutely right, Harry  Id be furious
if it was me!
Harry glared at her, still breathing deeply, then turned away from
them again, pacing up and down. Hedwig hooted glumly from the
top of the wardrobe. There was a long pause, broken only by the
mournful creak of the floorboards below Harrys feet.


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
What is this place anyway? he shot at Ron and Hermione.
Headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix, said Ron at once.
Is anyone going to bother telling me what the Order of the
Phoenix  ?
Its a secret society, said Hermione quickly. Dumbledores in
charge, he founded it. Its the people who fought against YouKnow
Who last time.
Whos in it? said Harry, coming to a halt with his hands in his
pockets.
Quite a few people 
 weve met about twenty of them, said Ron, but we think
there are more. . . .
Harry glared at them.
Well? he demanded, looking from one to the other.
Er, said Ron. Well what?
Voldemort! said Harry furiously, and both Ron and Hermione
winced. Whats happening? Whats he up to? Where is he? What are
we doing to stop him?
Weve told you, the Order dont let us in on their meetings, said
Hermione nervously. So we dont know the details  but weve got a
general idea  she added hastily, seeing the look on Harrys face.
Fred and George have invented Extendable Ears, see, said Ron.
Theyre really useful.
Extendable  ?
Ears, yeah. Only weve had to stop using them lately because
Mum found out and went berserk. Fred and George had to hide them
all to stop Mum binning them. But we got a good bit of use out of
them before Mum realized what was going on. We know some of the
Order are following known Death Eaters, keeping tabs on them, you
know 
 some of them are working on recruiting more people to the
Order  said Hermione.


CHAPTER FOUR
 and some of them are standing guard over something, said
Ron. Theyre always talking about guard duty.
Couldnt have been me, could it? said Harry sarcastically.
Oh yeah, said Ron, with a look of dawning comprehension.
Harry snorted. He walked around the room again, looking any
where but at Ron and Hermione. So what have you two been doing,
if youre not allowed in meetings? he demanded. You said youd
been busy.
We have, said Hermione quickly. Weve been decontaminating
this house, its been empty for ages and stuff s been breeding in here.
Weve managed to clean out the kitchen, most of the bedrooms, and I
think were doing the drawing room tomo  AARGH!
With two loud cracks, Fred and George, Rons elder twin brothers,
had materialized out of thin air in the middle of the room. Pigwidg
eon twittered more wildly than ever and zoomed off to join Hedwig
on top of the wardrobe.
Stop doing that! Hermione said weakly to the twins, who were as
vividly redhaired as Ron, though stockier and slightly shorter.
Hello, Harry, said George, beaming at him. We thought we
heard your dulcet tones.
You dont want to bottle up your anger like that, Harry, let it all
out, said Fred, also beaming. There might be a couple of people fifty
miles away who didnt hear you.
You two passed your Apparation tests, then? asked Harry
grumpily.
With distinction, said Fred, who was holding what looked like a
piece of very long, fleshcolored string.
It would have taken you about thirty seconds longer to walk down
the stairs, said Ron.
Time is Galleons, little brother, said Fred. Anyway, Harry, youre
interfering with reception. Extendable Ears, he added in response to


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
Harrys raised eyebrows, holding up the string, which Harry now saw
was trailing out onto the landing. Were trying to hear whats going
on downstairs.
You want to be careful, said Ron, staring at the ear. If Mum sees
one of them again . . .
Its worth the risk, thats a major meeting theyre having, said
Fred.
The door opened and a long mane of red hair appeared.
Oh hello, Harry! said Rons younger sister, Ginny, brightly. I
thought I heard your voice.
Turning to Fred and George she said, Its no go with the Extend
able Ears, shes gone and put an Imperturbable Charm on the kitchen
door.
How dyou know? said George, looking crestfallen.
Tonks told me how to find out, said Ginny. You just chuck stuff
at the door and if it cant make contact the doors been Imperturbed.
Ive been flicking Dungbombs at it from the top of the stairs and they
just soar away from it, so theres no way the Extendable Ears will be
able to get under the gap.
Fred heaved a deep sigh. Shame. I really fancied finding out what
old Snapes been up to.
Snape? said Harry quickly. Is he here?
Yeah, said George, carefully closing the door and sitting down on
one of the beds Fred and Ginny followed. Giving a report. Top
secret.
Git, said Fred idly.
Hes on our side now, said Hermione reprovingly.
Ron snorted. Doesnt stop him being a git. The way he looks at us
when he sees us. . . .
Bill doesnt like him either, said Ginny, as though that settled the
matter.


CHAPTER FOUR
Harry was not sure his anger had abated yet but his thirst for
information was now overcoming his urge to keep shouting. He sank
onto the bed opposite the others.
Is Bill here? he asked. I thought he was working in Egypt.
He applied for a desk job so he could come home and work for the
Order, said Fred. He says he misses the tombs, but, he smirked,
there are compensations. . . .
What dyou mean?
Remember old Fleur Delacour? said George. Shes got a job at
Gringotts to eemprove er Eeenglish 
 and Bills been giving her a lot of private lessons, sniggered
Fred.
Charlies in the Order too, said George, but hes still in Romania,
Dumbledore wants as many foreign wizards brought in as possible, so
Charlies trying to make contacts on his days off.
Couldnt Percy do that? Harry asked. The last he had heard, the
third Weasley brother was working in the Department of Interna
tional Magical Cooperation at the Ministry of Magic.
At these words all the Weasleys and Hermione exchanged darkly
significant looks.
Whatever you do, dont mention Percy in front of Mum and
Dad, Ron told Harry in a tense voice.
Why not?
Because every time Percys names mentioned, Dad breaks what
ever hes holding and Mum starts crying, Fred said.
Its been awful, said Ginny sadly.
I think were well shut of him, said George with an uncharacter
istically ugly look on his face.
Whats happened? Harry said.
Percy and Dad had a row, said Fred. Ive never seen Dad row
with anyone like that. Its normally Mum who shouts. . . .
It was the first week back after term ended, said Ron. We were


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
about to come and join the Order. Percy came home and told us hed
been promoted.
Youre kidding? said Harry.
Though he knew perfectly well that Percy was highly ambitious,
Harrys impression was that Percy had not made a great success of his
first job at the Ministry of Magic. Percy had committed the fairly large
oversight of failing to notice that his boss was being controlled by
Lord Voldemort not that the Ministry had believed that  they all
thought that Mr. Crouch had gone mad.
Yeah, we were all surprised, said George, because Percy got into
a load of trouble about Crouch, there was an inquiry and everything.
They said Percy ought to have realized Crouch was off his rocker and
informed a superior. But you know Percy, Crouch left him in charge,
he wasnt going to complain. . . .
So how come they promoted him?
Thats exactly what we wondered, said Ron, who seemed very
keen to keep normal conversation going now that Harry had stopped
yelling. He came home really pleased with himself  even more
pleased than usual if you can imagine that  and told Dad hed been
offered a position in Fudges own office. A really good one for some
one only a year out of Hogwarts  Junior Assistant to the Minister.
He expected Dad to be all impressed, I think.
Only Dad wasnt, said Fred grimly.
Why not? said Harry.
Well, apparently Fudge has been storming round the Ministry
checking that nobodys having any contact with Dumbledore, said
George.
Dumbledores names mud with the Ministry these days, see, said
Fred. They all think hes just making trouble saying YouKnow
Whos back.
Dad says Fudge has made it clear that anyone whos in league with
Dumbledore can clear out their desks, said George.


CHAPTER FOUR
Trouble is, Fudge suspects Dad, he knows hes friendly with Dum
bledore, and hes always thought Dads a bit of a weirdo because of his
Muggle obsession 
But whats this got to do with Percy? asked Harry, confused.
Im coming to that. Dad reckons Fudge only wants Percy in his
office because he wants to use him to spy on the family  and
Dumbledore.
Harry let out a low whistle.
Bet Percy loved that.
Ron laughed in a hollow sort of way.
He went completely berserk. He said  well, he said loads of ter
rible stuff. He said hes been having to struggle against Dads lousy
reputation ever since he joined the Ministry and that Dads got no
ambition and thats why weve always been  you know  not had a
lot of money, I mean 
What? said Harry in disbelief, as Ginny made a noise like an an
gry cat.
I know, said Ron in a low voice. And it got worse. He said Dad
was an idiot to run around with Dumbledore, that Dumbledore was
heading for big trouble and Dad was going to go down with him, and
that he  Percy  knew where his loyalty lay and it was with the
Ministry. And if Mum and Dad were going to become traitors to the
Ministry he was going to make sure everyone knew he didnt belong
to our family anymore. And he packed his bags the same night and
left. Hes living here in London now.
Harry swore under his breath. He had always liked Percy least of
Rons brothers, but he had never imagined he would say such things
to Mr. Weasley.
Mums been in a right state, said Ron. You know  crying and
stuff. She came up to London to try and talk to Percy but he slammed
the door in her face. I dunno what he does if he meets Dad at work 
ignores him, I spose.


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
But Percy must know Voldemorts back, said Harry slowly. Hes
not stupid, he must know your mum and dad wouldnt risk every
thing without proof 
Yeah, well, your name got dragged into the row, said Ron, shoot
ing Harry a furtive look. Percy said the only evidence was your word
and . . . I dunno . . . he didnt think it was good enough.
Percy takes the Daily Prophet seriously, said Hermione tartly, and
the others all nodded.
What are you talking about? Harry asked, looking around at
them all. They were all regarding him warily.
Havent  havent you been getting the Daily Prophet? Hermi
one asked nervously.
Yeah, I have! said Harry.
Have you  er  been reading it thoroughly? Hermione asked
still more anxiously.
Not cover to cover, said Harry defensively. If they were going
to report anything about Voldemort it would be headline news,
wouldnt it!
The others flinched at the sound of the name. Hermione hurried
on, Well, youd need to read it cover to cover to pick it up, but
they  um  they mention you a couple of times a week.
But Id have seen 
Not if youve only been reading the front page, you wouldnt, said
Hermione, shaking her head. Im not talking about big articles. They
just slip you in, like youre a standing joke.
What dyou  ?
Its quite nasty, actually, said Hermione in a voice of forced calm.
Theyre just building on Ritas stuff.
But shes not writing for them anymore, is she?
Oh no, shes kept her promise  not that shes got any choice,
Hermione added with satisfaction. But she laid the foundation for
what theyre trying to do now.


CHAPTER FOUR
Which is what? said Harry impatiently.
Okay, you know she wrote that you were collapsing all over the
place and saying your scar was hurting and all that?
Yeah, said Harry, who was not likely to forget Rita Skeeters sto
ries about him in a hurry.
Well, theyre writing about you as though youre this deluded,
attentionseeking person who thinks hes a great tragic hero or some
thing, said Hermione, very fast, as though it would be less unpleasant
for Harry to hear these facts quickly. They keep slipping in snide
comments about you. If some farfetched story appears they say some
thing like a tale worthy of Harry Potter and if anyone has a funny
accident or anything its lets hope he hasnt got a scar on his forehead
or well be asked to worship him next  
I dont want anyone to worship  Harry began hotly.
I know you dont, said Hermione quickly, looking frightened.
I know, Harry. But you see what theyre doing? They want to turn
you into someone nobody will believe. Fudge is behind it, Ill bet
anything. They want wizards on the street to think youre just some
stupid boy whos a bit of a joke, who tells ridiculous tall stories because
he loves being famous and wants to keep it going.
I didnt ask  I didnt want  Voldemort killed my parents!
Harry spluttered. I got famous because he murdered my family but
couldnt kill me! Who wants to be famous for that? Dont they think
Id rather itd never 
We know, Harry, said Ginny earnestly.
And of course, they didnt report a word about the dementors at
tacking you, said Hermione. Someones told them to keep that
quiet. That shouldve been a really big story, outofcontrol demen
tors. They havent even reported that you broke the International
Statute of Secrecy  we thought they would, it would tie in so well
with this image of you as some stupid showoff  we think theyre


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
biding their time until youre expelled, then theyre really going to go
to town  I mean, if youre expelled, obviously, she went on hastily,
you really shouldnt be, not if they abide by their own laws, theres no
case against you.
They were back on the hearing and Harry did not want to think
about it. He cast around for another change of subject, but was saved
the necessity of finding one by the sound of footsteps coming up the
stairs.
Uhoh.
Fred gave the Extendable Ear a hearty tug there was another loud
crack and he and George vanished. Seconds later, Mrs. Weasley ap
peared in the bedroom doorway.
The meetings over, you can come down and have dinner now,
everyones dying to see you, Harry. And whos left all those Dung
bombs outside the kitchen door?
Crookshanks, said Ginny unblushingly. He loves playing with
them.
Oh, said Mrs. Weasley, I thought it might have been Kreacher,
he keeps doing odd things like that. Now dont forget to keep your
voices down in the hall. Ginny, your hands are filthy, what have you
been doing? Go and wash them before dinner, please. . . .
Ginny grimaced at the others and followed her mother out of the
room, leaving Harry alone with Ron and Hermione again. Both of
them were watching him apprehensively, as though they feared that he
would start shouting again now that everyone else had gone. The sight
of them looking so nervous made him feel slightly ashamed.
Look . . . he muttered, but Ron shook his head, and Hermione
said quietly, We knew youd be angry, Harry, we really dont blame
you, but youve got to understand, we did try and persuade Dumble
dore 
Yeah, I know, said Harry grudgingly.


CHAPTER FOUR
He cast around for a topic to change the subject from Dumble
dore  the very thought of him made Harrys insides burn with
anger again.
Whos Kreacher? he asked.
The houseelf who lives here, said Ron. Nutter. Never met one
like him.
Hermione frowned at Ron.
Hes not a nutter, Ron 
His lifes ambition is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a
plaque just like his mother, said Ron irritably. Is that normal,
Hermione?
Well  well, if he is a bit strange, its not his fault 
Ron rolled his eyes at Harry.
Hermione still hasnt given up on spew 
Its not spew! said Hermione heatedly. Its the Society for the
Promotion of Elfish Welfare, and its not just me, Dumbledore says we
should be kind to Kreacher too 
Yeah, yeah, said Ron. Cmon, Im starving.
He led the way out of the door and onto the landing, but before
they could descend the stairs  Hold it! Ron breathed, flinging out
an arm to stop Harry and Hermione walking any farther. Theyre
still in the hall, we might be able to hear something 
The three of them looked cautiously over the banisters. The gloomy
hallway below was packed with witches and wizards, including all of
Harrys guard. They were whispering excitedly together. In the very
center of the group Harry saw the dark, greasyhaired head and promi
nent nose of his least favorite teacher at Hogwarts, Professor Snape.
Harry leaned farther over the banisters. He was very interested in what
Snape was doing for the Order of the Phoenix. . . .
A thin piece of fleshcolored string descended in front of Harrys
eyes. Looking up he saw Fred and George on the landing above, cau
tiously lowering the Extendable Ear toward the dark knot of people


NUMBER TWELVE,
GRIMMAULD PLACE
below. A moment later, however, they began to move toward the front
door and out of sight.
Dammit, Harry heard Fred whisper, as he hoisted the Extendable
Ear back up again.
They heard the front door open and then close.
Snape never eats here, Ron told Harry quietly. Thank God.
Cmon.
And dont forget to keep your voice down in the hall, Harry,
Hermione whispered.
As they passed the row of houseelf heads on the wall they saw
Lupin, Mrs. Weasley, and Tonks at the front door, magically sealing its
many locks and bolts behind those who had just left.
Were eating down in the kitchen, Mrs. Weasley whispered,
meeting them at the bottom of the stairs. Harry, dear, if youll just
tiptoe across the hall, its through this door here 
CRASH.
Tonks! cried Mrs. Weasley exasperatedly, turning to look behind
her.
Im sorry! wailed Tonks, who was lying flat on the floor. Its that
stupid umbrella stand, thats the second time Ive tripped over 
But the rest of her words were drowned by a horrible, earsplitting,
bloodcurdling screech.
The motheaten velvet curtains Harry had passed earlier had flown
apart, but there was no door behind them. For a split second, Harry
thought he was looking through a window, a window behind which
an old woman in a black cap was screaming and screaming as though
she was being tortured  then he realized it was simply a lifesize por
trait, but the most realistic, and the most unpleasant, he had ever seen
in his life.
The old woman was drooling, her eyes were rolling, the yellowing
skin of her face stretched taut as she screamed, and all along the hall
behind them, the other portraits awoke and began to yell too, so that


CHAPTER FOUR
Harry actually screwed up his eyes at the noise and clapped his hands
over his ears.
Lupin and Mrs. Weasley darted forward and tried to tug the cur
tains shut over the old woman, but they would not close and she
screeched louder than ever, brandishing clawed hands as though try
ing to tear at their faces.
Filth! Scum! Byproducts of dirt and vileness! Halfbreeds, mutants,
freaks, begone from this place! How dare you befoul the house of my
fathers 
Tonks apologized over and over again, at the same time dragging
the huge, heavy trolls leg back off the floor. Mrs. Weasley abandoned
the attempt to close the curtains and hurried up and down the hall,
Stunning all the other portraits with her wand. Then a man with long
black hair came charging out of a door facing Harry.
Shut up, you horrible old hag, shut UP! he roared, seizing the
curtain Mrs. Weasley had abandoned.
The old womans face blanched.
Yoooou! she howled, her eyes popping at the sight of the man.
Blood traitor, abomination, shame of my flesh!
I said  shut  UP! roared the man, and with a stupendous ef
fort he and Lupin managed to force the curtains closed again.
The old womans screeches died and an echoing silence fell.
Panting slightly and sweeping his long dark hair out of his eyes,
Harrys godfather, Sirius, turned to face him.
Hello, Harry, he said grimly, I see youve met my mother.


C H A P T E R F I V E
THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
Y
our  ?
My dear old mum, yeah, said Sirius. Weve been trying
to get her down for a month but we think she put a Permanent Stick
ing Charm on the back of the canvas. Lets get downstairs, quick,
before they all wake up again.
But whats a portrait of your mother doing here? Harry asked,
bewildered, as they went through the door from the hall and led the
way down a flight of narrow stone steps, the others just behind them.
Hasnt anyone told you? This was my parents house, said Sirius.
But Im the last Black left, so its mine now. I offered it to Dumbledore
for headquarters  about the only useful thing Ive been able to do.
Harry, who had expected a better welcome, noted how hard and
bitter Siriuss voice sounded. He followed his godfather to the bottom
of the stairs and through a door leading into the basement kitchen.
It was scarcely less gloomy than the hall above, a cavernous room
with rough stone walls. Most of the light was coming from a large fire
at the far end of the room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like
battle fumes, through which loomed the menacing shapes of heavy


CHAPTER FIVE
iron pots and pans hanging from the dark ceiling. Many chairs had
been crammed into the room for the meeting and a long wooden table
stood in the middle of the room, littered with rolls of parchment, gob
lets, empty wine bottles, and a heap of what appeared to be rags. Mr.
Weasley and his eldest son, Bill, were talking quietly with their heads
together at the end of the table.
Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat. Her husband, a thin, balding, red
haired man, who wore hornrimmed glasses, looked around and
jumped to his feet.
Harry! Mr. Weasley said, hurrying forward to greet him and
shaking his hand vigorously. Good to see you!
Over his shoulder Harry saw Bill, who still wore his long hair in a
ponytail, hastily rolling up the lengths of parchment left on the table.
Journey all right, Harry? Bill called, trying to gather up twelve
scrolls at once. MadEye didnt make you come via Greenland,
then?
He tried, said Tonks, striding over to help Bill and immediately
sending a candle toppling onto the last piece of parchment. Oh
no  sorry 
Here, dear, said Mrs. Weasley, sounding exasperated, and she re
paired the parchment with a wave of her wand In the flash of light
caused by Mrs. Weasleys charm, Harry caught a glimpse of what
looked like the plan of a building.
Mrs. Weasley had seen him looking. She snatched the plan off the
table and stuffed it into Bills heavily laden arms.
This sort of thing ought to be cleared away promptly at the end of
meetings, she snapped before sweeping off toward an ancient dresser
from which she started unloading dinner plates.
Bill took out his wand, muttered Evanesco! and the scrolls
vanished.
Sit down, Harry, said Sirius. Youve met Mundungus, havent
you?


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
The thing Harry had taken to be a pile of rags gave a prolonged,
grunting snore and then jerked awake.
Somen say m name? Mundungus mumbled sleepily. I gree
with Sirius. . . .
He raised a very grubby hand in the air as though voting, his
droopy, bloodshot eyes unfocused. Ginny giggled.
The meetings over, Dung, said Sirius, as they all sat down
around him at the table. Harrys arrived.
Eh? said Mundungus, peering balefully at Harry through his
matted ginger hair. Blimey, so e as. Yeah . . . you all right, arry?
Yeah, said Harry.
Mundungus fumbled nervously in his pockets, still staring at
Harry, and pulled out a grimy black pipe. He stuck it in his mouth,
ignited the end of it with his wand, and took a deep pull on it. Great
billowing clouds of greenish smoke obscured him in seconds.
Owe you a pology, grunted a voice from the middle of the smelly
cloud.
For the last time, Mundungus, called Mrs. Weasley, will you
please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, especially not when were
about to eat!
Ah, said Mundungus. Right. Sorry, Molly.
The cloud of smoke vanished as Mundungus stowed his pipe back
in his pocket, but an acrid smell of burning socks lingered.
And if you want dinner before midnight Ill need a hand, Mrs.
Weasley said to the room at large. No, you can stay where you are,
Harry dear, youve had a long journey 
What can I do, Molly? said Tonks enthusiastically, bounding for
ward.
Mrs. Weasley hesitated, looking apprehensive.
Er  no, its all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, youve done
enough today 
No, no, I want to help! said Tonks brightly, knocking over a chair


CHAPTER FIVE
as she hurried toward the dresser from which Ginny was collecting
cutlery.
Soon a series of heavy knives were chopping meat and vegetables of
their own accord, supervised by Mr. Weasley, while Mrs. Weasley
stirred a cauldron dangling over the fire and the others took out plates,
more goblets, and food from the pantry. Harry was left at the table
with Sirius and Mundungus, who was still blinking mournfully at
him.
Seen old Figgy since? he asked.
No, said Harry, I havent seen anyone.
See, I wouldnt ave left, said Mundungus, leaning forward, a
pleading note in his voice, but I ad a business opportunity 
Harry felt something brush against his knees and started, but it was
only Crookshanks, Hermiones bandylegged ginger cat, who wound
himself once around Harrys legs, purring, then jumped onto Siriuss
lap and curled up. Sirius scratched him absentmindedly behind the
ears as he turned, still grimfaced, to Harry.
Had a good summer so far?
No, its been lousy, said Harry.
For the first time, something like a grin flitted across Siriuss face.
Dont know what youre complaining about, myself.
What? said Harry incredulously.
Personally, Id have welcomed a dementor attack. A deadly strug
gle for my soul would have broken the monotony nicely. You think
youve had it bad, at least youve been able to get out and about,
stretch your legs, get into a few fights. . . . Ive been stuck inside for a
month.
How come? asked Harry, frowning.
Because the Ministry of Magics still after me, and Voldemort will
know all about me being an Animagus by now, Wormtail will have
told him, so my big disguise is useless. Theres not much I can do for
the Order of the Phoenix . . . or so Dumbledore feels.


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
There was something about the slightly flattened tone of voice in
which Sirius uttered Dumbledores name that told Harry that Sirius
was not very happy with the headmaster either. Harry felt a sudden
upsurge of affection for his godfather.
At least youve known whats been going on, he said bracingly.
Oh yeah, said Sirius sarcastically. Listening to Snapes reports,
having to take all his snide hints that hes out there risking his life
while Im sat on my backside here having a nice comfortable time . . .
asking me how the cleanings going 
What cleaning? asked Harry.
Trying to make this place fit for human habitation, said Sirius,
waving a hand around the dismal kitchen. No ones lived here for
ten years, not since my dear mother died, unless you count her old
houseelf, and hes gone round the twist, hasnt cleaned anything in
ages 
Sirius? said Mundungus, who did not appear to have paid any
attention to this conversation, but had been minutely examining an
empty goblet. This solid silver, mate?
Yes, said Sirius, surveying it with distaste. Finest fifteenth
century goblinwrought silver, embossed with the Black family crest.
Thatd come off, though, muttered Mundungus, polishing it
with his cuff.
Fred  George  NO, JUST CARRY THEM! Mrs. Weasley
shrieked.
Harry, Sirius, and Mundungus looked around and, a split second
later, dived away from the table. Fred and George had bewitched a
large cauldron of stew, an iron flagon of butterbeer, and a heavy
wooden breadboard, complete with knife, to hurtle through the air
toward them. The stew skidded the length of the table and came to a
halt just before the end, leaving a long black burn on the wooden sur
face, the flagon of butterbeer fell with a crash, spilling its contents
everywhere, and the bread knife slipped off the board and landed,


CHAPTER FIVE
point down and quivering ominously, exactly where Siriuss right
hand had been seconds before.
FOR HEAVENS SAKE! screamed Mrs. Weasley. THERE
WAS NO NEED  IVE HAD ENOUGH OF THIS  JUST BE
CAUSE YOURE ALLOWED TO USE MAGIC NOW YOU
DONT HAVE TO WHIP YOUR WANDS OUT FOR EVERY
TINY LITTLE THING!
We were just trying to save a bit of time! said Fred, hurrying for
ward and wrenching the bread knife out of the table. Sorry Sirius,
mate  didnt mean to 
Harry and Sirius were both laughing. Mundungus, who had top
pled backward off his chair, was swearing as he got to his feet. Crook
shanks had given an angry hiss and shot off under the dresser, from
whence his large yellow eyes glowed in the darkness.
Boys, Mr. Weasley said, lifting the stew back into the middle of
the table, your mothers right, youre supposed to show a sense of re
sponsibility now youve come of age 
 none of your brothers caused this sort of trouble! Mrs.
Weasley raged at the twins, slamming a fresh flagon of butterbeer onto
the table and spilling almost as much again. Bill didnt feel the need
to Apparate every few feet! Charlie didnt Charm everything he met!
Percy 
She stopped dead, catching her breath with a frightened look at her
husband, whose expression was suddenly wooden.
Lets eat, said Bill quickly.
It looks wonderful, Molly, said Lupin, ladling stew onto a plate
for her and handing it across the table.
For a few minutes there was silence but for the chink of plates and
cutlery and the scraping of chairs as everyone settled down to their
food. Then Mrs. Weasley turned to Sirius and said, Ive been mean
ing to tell you, theres something trapped in that writing desk in the
drawing room, it keeps rattling and shaking. Of course, it could just


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
be a boggart, but I thought we ought to ask Alastor to have a look at
it before we let it out.
Whatever you like, said Sirius indifferently.
The curtains in there are full of doxies too, Mrs. Weasley went
on. I thought we might try and tackle them tomorrow.
I look forward to it, said Sirius. Harry heard the sarcasm in his
voice, but he was not sure that anyone else did.
Opposite Harry, Tonks was entertaining Hermione and Ginny by
transforming her nose between mouthfuls. Screwing up her eyes each
time with the same pained expression she had worn back in Harrys
bedroom, her nose swelled to a beaklike protuberance like Snapes,
shrank to something resembling a button mushroom, and then
sprouted a great deal of hair from each nostril. Apparently this was a
regular mealtime entertainment, because after a while Hermione and
Ginny started requesting their favorite noses.
Do that one like a pig snout, Tonks . . .
Tonks obliged, and Harry, looking up, had the fleeting impression
that a female Dudley was grinning at him from across the table.
Mr. Weasley, Bill, and Lupin were having an intense discussion
about goblins.
Theyre not giving anything away yet, said Bill. I still cant work
out whether they believe hes back or not. Course, they might prefer
not to take sides at all. Keep out of it.
Im sure theyd never go over to YouKnowWho, said Mr.
Weasley, shaking his head. Theyve suffered losses too. Remember
that goblin family he murdered last time, somewhere near
Nottingham?
I think it depends what theyre offered, said Lupin. And Im not
talking about gold if theyre offered freedoms weve been denying
them for centuries theyre going to be tempted. Have you still not had
any luck with Ragnok, Bill?
Hes feeling pretty antiwizard at the moment, said Bill. He


CHAPTER FIVE
hasnt stopped raging about the Bagman business, he reckons the
Ministry did a coverup, those goblins never got their gold from him,
you know 
A gale of laughter from the middle of the table drowned the rest of
Bills words. Fred, George, Ron, and Mundungus were rolling around
in their seats.
. . . and then, choked Mundungus, tears running down his face,
and then, if youll believe it, e says to me, e says,  ere, Dung, where
didja get all them toads from? Cos some son of a Bludgers gone and
nicked all mine! And I says, Nicked all your toads, Will, what next?
So youll be wanting some more, then? And if youll believe me, lads,
the gormless gargoyle buys all is own toads back orf me for twice what
e paid in the first place 
I dont think we need to hear any more of your business dealings,
thank you very much, Mundungus, said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as
Ron slumped forward onto the table, howling with laughter.
Beg pardon, Molly, said Mundungus at once, wiping his eyes and
winking at Harry. But, you know, Will nicked em orf Warty Harris
in the first place so I wasnt really doing nothing wrong 
I dont know where you learned about right and wrong, Mundun
gus, but you seem to have missed a few crucial lessons, said Mrs.
Weasley coldly.
Fred and George buried their faces in their goblets of butterbeer
George was hiccuping. For some reason, Mrs. Weasley threw a very
nasty look at Sirius before getting to her feet and going to fetch a large
rhubarb crumble for pudding. Harry looked round at his godfather.
Molly doesnt approve of Mundungus, said Sirius in an
undertone.
How come hes in the Order? Harry said very quietly.
Hes useful, Sirius muttered. Knows all the crooks  well, he
would, seeing as hes one himself. But hes also very loyal to Dumble


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
dore, who helped him out of a tight spot once. It pays to have some
one like Dung around, he hears things we dont. But Molly thinks
inviting him to stay for dinner is going too far. She hasnt forgiven him
for slipping off duty when he was supposed to be tailing you.
Three helpings of rhubarb crumble and custard later and the waist
band on Harrys jeans was feeling uncomfortably tight which was
saying something, as the jeans had once been Dudleys. He lay down
his spoon in a lull in the general conversation. Mr. Weasley was lean
ing back in his chair, looking replete and relaxed, Tonks was yawning
widely, her nose now back to normal, and Ginny, who had lured
Crookshanks out from under the dresser, was sitting crosslegged on
the floor, rolling butterbeer corks for him to chase.
Nearly time for bed, I think, said Mrs. Weasley on a yawn.
Not just yet, Molly, said Sirius, pushing away his empty plate and
turning to look at Harry. You know, Im surprised at you. I thought
the first thing youd do when you got here would be to start asking
questions about Voldemort.
The atmosphere in the room changed with the rapidity Harry as
sociated with the arrival of dementors. Where seconds before it had
been sleepily relaxed, it was now alert, even tense. A frisson had gone
around the table at the mention of Voldemorts name. Lupin, who
had been about to take a sip of wine, lowered his goblet slowly, look
ing wary.
I did! said Harry indignantly. I asked Ron and Hermione but
they said were not allowed in the Order, so 
And theyre quite right, said Mrs. Weasley. Youre too young.
She was sitting bolt upright in her chair, her fists clenched upon its
arms, every trace of drowsiness gone.
Since when did someone have to be in the Order of the Phoenix to
ask questions? asked Sirius. Harrys been trapped in that Muggle
house for a month. Hes got the right to know whats been happen 


CHAPTER FIVE
Hang on! interrupted George loudly.
How come Harry gets his questions answered? said Fred angrily.
Weve been trying to get stuff out of you for a month and you
havent told us a single stinking thing! said George.
  Youre too young, youre not in the Order,  said Fred, in a high
pitched voice that sounded uncannily like his mothers. Harrys not
even of age!
Its not my fault you havent been told what the Orders doing,
said Sirius calmly. Thats your parents decision. Harry, on the other
hand 
Its not down to you to decide whats good for Harry! said Mrs.
Weasley sharply. Her normally kindly face looked dangerous. You
havent forgotten what Dumbledore said, I suppose?
Which bit? Sirius asked politely, but with an air as though ready
ing himself for a fight.
The bit about not telling Harry more than he needs to know, said
Mrs. Weasley, placing a heavy emphasis on the last three words.
Ron, Hermione, Fred, and Georges heads turned from Sirius to
Mrs. Weasley as though following a tennis rally. Ginny was kneeling
amid a pile of abandoned butterbeer corks, watching the conversation
with her mouth slightly open. Lupins eyes were fixed on Sirius.
I dont intend to tell him more than he needs to know, Molly, said
Sirius. But as he was the one who saw Voldemort come back again,
there was a collective shudder around the table at the name, he has
more right than most to 
Hes not a member of the Order of the Phoenix! said Mrs.
Weasley. Hes only fifteen and 
 and hes dealt with as much as most in the Order, said Sirius,
and more than some 
No ones denying what hes done! said Mrs. Weasley, her voice ris
ing, her fists trembling on the arms of her chair. But hes still 
Hes not a child! said Sirius impatiently.


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
Hes not an adult either! said Mrs. Weasley, the color rising in her
cheeks. Hes not James, Sirius!
Im perfectly clear who he is, thanks, Molly, said Sirius coldly.
Im not sure you are! said Mrs. Weasley. Sometimes, the way you
talk about him, its as though you think youve got your best friend
back!
Whats wrong with that? said Harry.
Whats wrong, Harry, is that you are not your father, however
much you might look like him! said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes still bor
ing into Sirius. You are still at school and adults responsible for you
should not forget it!
Meaning Im an irresponsible godfather? demanded Sirius, his
voice rising.
Meaning youve been known to act rashly, Sirius, which is why
Dumbledore keeps reminding you to stay at home and 
Well leave my instructions from Dumbledore out of this, if you
please! said Sirius loudly.
Arthur! said Mrs. Weasley, rounding on her husband. Arthur,
back me up!
Mr. Weasley did not speak at once. He took off his glasses and
cleaned them slowly on his robes, not looking at his wife. Only when
he had replaced them carefully on his nose did he say, Dumbledore
knows the position has changed, Molly. He accepts that Harry will
have to be filled in to a certain extent now that he is staying at head
quarters 
Yes, but theres a difference between that and inviting him to ask
whatever he likes!
Personally, said Lupin quietly, looking away from Sirius at last, as
Mrs. Weasley turned quickly to him, hopeful that finally she was about
to get an ally, I think it better that Harry gets the facts  not all the
facts, Molly, but the general picture  from us, rather than a garbled
version from . . . others.


CHAPTER FIVE
His expression was mild, but Harry felt sure that Lupin, at least,
knew that some Extendable Ears had survived Mrs. Weasleys purge.
Well, said Mrs. Weasley, breathing deeply and looking around
the table for support that did not come, well . . . I can see Im going
to be overruled. Ill just say this Dumbledore must have had his rea
sons for not wanting Harry to know too much, and speaking as some
one who has got Harrys best interests at heart 
Hes not your son, said Sirius quietly.
Hes as good as, said Mrs. Weasley fiercely. Who else has he got?
Hes got me!
Yes, said Mrs. Weasley, her lip curling. The thing is, its been
rather difficult for you to look after him while youve been locked up
in Azkaban, hasnt it?
Sirius started to rise from his chair.
Molly, youre not the only person at this table who cares about
Harry, said Lupin sharply. Sirius, sit down.
Mrs. Weasleys lower lip was trembling. Sirius sank slowly back into
his chair, his face white.
I think Harry ought to be allowed a say in this, Lupin continued.
Hes old enough to decide for himself.
I want to know whats been going on, Harry said at once.
He did not look at Mrs. Weasley. He had been touched by what she
had said about his being as good as a son, but he was also impatient at
her mollycoddling. . . . Sirius was right, he was not a child.
Very well, said Mrs. Weasley, her voice cracking. Ginny 
Ron  Hermione  Fred  George  I want you out of this
kitchen, now.
There was instant uproar.
Were of age! Fred and George bellowed together.
If Harrys allowed, why cant I? shouted Ron.
Mum, I want to! wailed Ginny.


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
NO! shouted Mrs. Weasley, standing up, her eyes overbright. I
absolutely forbid 
Molly, you cant stop Fred and George, said Mr. Weasley wearily.
They are of age 
Theyre still at school 
But theyre legally adults now, said Mr. Weasley in the same tired
voice.
Mrs. Weasley was now scarlet in the face.
I  oh, all right then, Fred and George can stay, but Ron 
Harryll tell me and Hermione everything you say anyway! said
Ron hotly. Wont  wont you? he added uncertainly, meeting
Harrys eyes.
For a split second, Harry considered telling Ron that he wouldnt
tell him a single word, that he could try a taste of being kept in the
dark and see how he liked it. But the nasty impulse vanished as they
looked at each other.
 Course I will, Harry said. Ron and Hermione beamed.
Fine! shouted Mrs. Weasley. Fine! Ginny  BED!
Ginny did not go quietly. They could hear her raging and storming
at her mother all the way up the stairs, and when she reached the hall
Mrs. Blacks earsplitting shrieks were added to the din. Lupin hurried
off to the portrait to restore calm. It was only after he had returned,
closing the kitchen door behind him and taking his seat at the table
again, that Sirius spoke.
Okay, Harry . . . what do you want to know?
Harry took a deep breath and asked the question that had been ob
sessing him for a month.
Wheres Voldemort? Whats he doing? Ive been trying to watch
the Muggle news, he said, ignoring the renewed shudders and winces
at the name, and there hasnt been anything that looks like him yet,
no funny deaths or anything 


CHAPTER FIVE
Thats because there havent been any suspicious deaths yet, said
Sirius, not as far as we know, anyway. . . . And we know quite a lot.
More than he thinks we do anyway, said Lupin.
How come hes stopped killing people? Harry asked. He knew
that Voldemort had murdered more than once in the last year alone.
Because he doesnt want to draw attention to himself at the mo
ment, said Sirius. It would be dangerous for him. His comeback
didnt come off quite the way he wanted it to, you see. He messed it
up.
Or rather, you messed it up for him, said Lupin with a satisfied
smile.
How? Harry asked perplexedly.
You werent supposed to survive! said Sirius. Nobody apart from
his Death Eaters was supposed to know hed come back. But you sur
vived to bear witness.
And the very last person he wanted alerted to his return the mo
ment he got back was Dumbledore, said Lupin. And you made sure
Dumbledore knew at once.
How has that helped? Harry asked.
Are you kidding? said Bill incredulously. Dumbledore was the
only one YouKnowWho was ever scared of !
Thanks to you, Dumbledore was able to recall the Order of the
Phoenix about an hour after Voldemort returned, said Sirius.
So whats the Order been doing? said Harry, looking around at
them all.
Working as hard as we can to make sure Voldemort cant carry out
his plans, said Sirius.
How dyou know what his plans are? Harry asked quickly.
Dumbledores got a shrewd idea, said Lupin, and Dumbledores
shrewd ideas normally turn out to be accurate.
So what does Dumbledore reckon hes planning?
Well, firstly, he wants to build up his army again, said Sirius. In


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
the old days he had huge numbers at his command witches and wiz
ards hed bullied or bewitched into following him, his faithful Death
Eaters, a great variety of Dark creatures. You heard him planning to
recruit the giants well, theyll be just one group hes after. Hes cer
tainly not going to try and take on the Ministry of Magic with only a
dozen Death Eaters.
So youre trying to stop him getting more followers?
Were doing our best, said Lupin.
How?
Well, the main thing is to try and convince as many people as pos
sible that YouKnowWho really has returned, to put them on their
guard, said Bill. Its proving tricky, though.
Why?
Because of the Ministrys attitude, said Tonks. You saw Cor
nelius Fudge after YouKnowWho came back, Harry. Well, he hasnt
shifted his position at all. Hes absolutely refusing to believe its
happened.
But why? said Harry desperately. Whys he being so stupid? If
Dumbledore 
Ah, well, youve put your finger on the problem, said Mr. Weasley
with a wry smile. Dumbledore.
Fudge is frightened of him, you see, said Tonks sadly.
Frightened of Dumbledore? said Harry incredulously.
Frightened of what hes up to, said Mr. Weasley. You see, Fudge
thinks Dumbledores plotting to overthrow him. He thinks Dumble
dore wants to be Minister of Magic.
But Dumbledore doesnt want 
Of course he doesnt, said Mr. Weasley. Hes never wanted the
Ministers job, even though a lot of people wanted him to take it when
Millicent Bagnold retired. Fudge came to power instead, but hes
never quite forgotten how much popular support Dumbledore had,
even though Dumbledore never applied for the job.


CHAPTER FIVE
Deep down, Fudge knows Dumbledores much cleverer than he is,
a much more powerful wizard, and in the early days of his Ministry he
was forever asking Dumbledore for help and advice, said Lupin. But
it seems that hes become fond of power now, and much more confi
dent. He loves being Minister of Magic, and hes managed to convince
himself that hes the clever one and Dumbledores simply stirring up
trouble for the sake of it.
How can he think that? said Harry angrily. How can he think
Dumbledore would just make it all up  that Id make it all up?
Because accepting that Voldemorts back would mean trouble like
the Ministry hasnt had to cope with for nearly fourteen years, said
Sirius bitterly. Fudge just cant bring himself to face it. Its so much
more comfortable to convince himself Dumbledores lying to destabi
lize him.
You see the problem, said Lupin. While the Ministry insists
there is nothing to fear from Voldemort, its hard to convince people
hes back, especially as they really dont want to believe it in the first
place. Whats more, the Ministrys leaning heavily on the Daily
Prophet not to report any of what theyre calling Dumbledores rumor
mongering, so most of the Wizarding community are completely un
aware anythings happened, and that makes them easy targets for the
Death Eaters if theyre using the Imperius Curse.
But youre telling people, arent you? said Harry, looking around
at Mr. Weasley, Sirius, Bill, Mundungus, Lupin, and Tonks. Youre
letting people know hes back?
They all smiled humorlessly.
Well, as everyone thinks Im a mad mass murderer and the Min
istrys put a tenthousandGalleon price on my head, I can hardly stroll
up the street and start handing out leaflets, can I? said Sirius restlessly.
And Im not a very popular dinner guest with most of the commu
nity, said Lupin. Its an occupational hazard of being a werewolf.


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
Tonks and Arthur would lose their jobs at the Ministry if they
started shooting their mouths off, said Sirius, and its very important
for us to have spies inside the Ministry, because you can bet Volde
mort will have them.
Weve managed to convince a couple of people, though, said Mr.
Weasley. Tonks here, for one  shes too young to have been in the
Order of the Phoenix last time, and having Aurors on our side is a
huge advantage  Kingsley Shacklebolts been a real asset too. Hes in
charge of the hunt for Sirius, so hes been feeding the Ministry infor
mation that Sirius is in Tibet.
But if none of yous putting the news out that Voldemorts
back  Harry began.
Who said none of us was putting the news out? said Sirius. Why
dyou think Dumbledores in such trouble?
What dyou mean? Harry asked.
Theyre trying to discredit him, said Lupin. Didnt you see the
Daily Prophet last week? They reported that hed been voted out of the
Chairmanship of the International Confederation of Wizards because
hes getting old and losing his grip, but its not true, he was voted out
by Ministry wizards after he made a speech announcing Voldemorts
return. Theyve demoted him from Chief Warlock on the Wizen
gamot  thats the Wizard High Court  and theyre talking about
taking away his Order of Merlin, First Class, too.
But Dumbledore says he doesnt care what they do as long as they
dont take him off the Chocolate Frog cards, said Bill, grinning.
Its no laughing matter, said Mr. Weasley shortly. If he carries on
defying the Ministry like this, he could end up in Azkaban and the
last thing we want is Dumbledore locked up. While YouKnowWho
knows Dumbledores out there and wise to what hes up to, hes going
to go cautiously for a while. If Dumbledores out of the way  well,
YouKnowWho will have a clear field.


CHAPTER FIVE
But if Voldemorts trying to recruit more Death Eaters, its bound
to get out that hes come back, isnt it? asked Harry desperately.
Voldemort doesnt march up to peoples houses and bang on their
front doors, Harry, said Sirius. He tricks, jinxes, and blackmails
them. Hes wellpracticed at operating in secrecy. In any case, gather
ing followers is only one thing hes interested in, hes got other plans
too, plans he can put into operation very quietly indeed, and hes con
centrating on them at the moment.
Whats he after apart from followers? Harry asked swiftly.
He thought he saw Sirius and Lupin exchange the most fleeting of
looks before Sirius said, Stuff he can only get by stealth.
When Harry continued to look puzzled, Sirius said, Like a
weapon. Something he didnt have last time.
When he was powerful before?
Yes.
Like what kind of weapon? said Harry. Something worse than
the Avada Kedavra  ?
Thats enough.
Mrs. Weasley spoke from the shadows beside the door. Harry had
not noticed her return from taking Ginny upstairs. Her arms were
crossed and she looked furious.
I want you in bed, now. All of you, she added, looking around at
Fred, George, Ron, and Hermione.
You cant boss us  Fred began.
Watch me, snarled Mrs. Weasley. She was trembling slightly as
she looked at Sirius. Youve given Harry plenty of information. Any
more and you might just as well induct him into the Order
straightaway.
Why not? said Harry quickly. Ill join, I want to join, I want to
fight 
No.
It was not Mrs. Weasley who spoke this time, but Lupin.


THE ORDER OF
THE PHOENIX
The Order is comprised only of overage wizards, he said. Wiz
ards who have left school, he added, as Fred and George opened their
mouths. There are dangers involved of which you can have no idea,
any of you . . . I think Mollys right, Sirius. Weve said enough.
Sirius halfshrugged but did not argue. Mrs. Weasley beckoned im
periously to her sons and Hermione. One by one they stood up and
Harry, recognizing defeat, followed suit.


C H A P T E R S I X
THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
M
rs. Weasley followed them upstairs looking grim.
I want you all to go straight to bed, no talking, she
said as they reached the first landing. Weve got a busy day tomorrow.
I expect Ginnys asleep, she added to Hermione, so try not to wake
her up.
Asleep, yeah, right, said Fred in an undertone, after Hermione
bade them good night and they were climbing to the next floor. If
Ginnys not lying awake waiting for Hermione to tell her everything
they said downstairs, then Im a flobberworm. . . .
All right, Ron, Harry, said Mrs. Weasley on the second landing,
pointing them into their bedroom. Off to bed with you.
 Night, Harry and Ron said to the twins.
Sleep tight, said Fred, winking.
Mrs. Weasley closed the door behind Harry with a sharp snap. The
bedroom looked, if anything, even danker and gloomier than it had
on first sight. The blank picture on the wall was now breathing very
slowly and deeply, as though its invisible occupant was asleep. Harry
put on his pajamas, took off his glasses, and climbed into his chilly


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
bed while Ron threw Owl Treats up on top of the wardrobe to pacify
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon, who were clattering around and rustling
their wings restlessly.
We cant let them out to hunt every night, Ron explained as he
pulled on his maroon pajamas. Dumbledore doesnt want too many
owls swooping around the square, thinks itll look suspicious. Oh
yeah . . . I forgot. . . .
He crossed to the door and bolted it.
Whatre you doing that for?
Kreacher, said Ron as he turned off the light. First night I was
here he came wandering in at three in the morning. Trust me, you
dont want to wake up and find him prowling around your room.
Anyway . . . He got into his bed, settled down under the covers, then
turned to look at Harry in the darkness. Harry could see his outline
by the moonlight filtering in through the grimy window. What dyou
reckon?
Harry didnt need to ask what Ron meant.
Well, they didnt tell us much we couldnt have guessed, did they?
he said, thinking of all that had been said downstairs. I mean, all
theyve really said is that the Orders trying to stop people joining
Vol 
There was a sharp intake of breath from Ron.
 demort, said Harry firmly. When are you going to start using
his name? Sirius and Lupin do.
Ron ignored this last comment. Yeah, youre right, he said. We
already knew nearly everything they told us, from using the Extend
able Ears. The only new bit was 
Crack.
OUCH!
Keep your voice down, Ron, or Mumll be back up here.
You two just Apparated on my knees!
Yeah, well, its harder in the dark 


CHAPTER SIX
Harry saw the blurred outlines of Fred and George leaping down
from Rons bed. There was a groan of bedsprings and Harrys mattress
descended a few inches as George sat down near his feet.
So, got there yet? said George eagerly.
The weapon Sirius mentioned? said Harry.
Let slip, more like, said Fred with relish, now sitting next to Ron.
We didnt hear about that on the old Extendables, did we?
What dyou reckon it is? said Harry.
Could be anything, said Fred.
But there cant be anything worse than the Avada Kedavra curse,
can there? said Ron. Whats worse than death?
Maybe its something that can kill loads of people at once, sug
gested George.
Maybe its some particularly painful way of killing people, said
Ron fearfully.
Hes got the Cruciatus Curse for causing pain, said Harry. He
doesnt need anything more efficient than that.
There was a pause and Harry knew that the others, like him, were
wondering what horrors this weapon could perpetrate.
So who dyou thinks got it now? asked George.
I hope its our side, said Ron, sounding slightly nervous.
If it is, Dumbledores probably keeping it, said Fred.
Where? said Ron quickly. Hogwarts?
Bet it is! said George. Thats where he hid the Sorcerers Stone!
A weapons going to be a lot bigger than the Stone, though! said
Ron.
Not necessarily, said Fred.
Yeah, size is no guarantee of power, said George. Look at
Ginny.
What dyou mean? said Harry.
Youve never been on the receiving end of one of her BatBogey
Hexes, have you?


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
Shhh! said Fred, halfrising from the bed. Listen!
They fell silent. Footsteps were coming up the stairs again.
Mum, said George, and without further ado there was a loud
crack and Harry felt the weight vanish from the end of his bed. A few
seconds later and they heard the floorboard creak outside their door
Mrs. Weasley was plainly listening to see whether they were talking or
not.
Hedwig and Pigwidgeon hooted dolefully. The floorboard creaked
again and they heard her heading upstairs to check on Fred and
George.
She doesnt trust us at all, you know, said Ron regretfully.
Harry was sure he would not be able to fall asleep the evening had
been so packed with things to think about that he fully expected to lie
awake for hours mulling it all over. He wanted to continue talking to
Ron, but Mrs. Weasley was now creaking back downstairs again, and
once she had gone he distinctly heard others making their way up
stairs. . . . In fact, manylegged creatures were cantering softly up and
down outside the bedroom door, and Hagrid, the Care of Magical
Creatures teacher, was saying, Beauties, aren they, eh, Harry? Well be
studyin weapons this term. . . . And Harry saw that the creatures had
cannons for heads and were wheeling to face him. . . . He ducked. . . .
The next thing he knew, he was curled in a warm ball under his
bedclothes, and Georges loud voice was filling the room.
Mum says get up, your breakfast is in the kitchen and then she needs
you in the drawing room, there are loads more doxies than she thought
and shes found a nest of dead puffskeins under the sofa.
Half an hour later, Harry and Ron, who had dressed and break
fasted quickly, entered the drawing room, a long, highceilinged room
on the first floor with olivegreen walls covered in dirty tapestries. The
carpet exhaled little clouds of dust every time someone put their foot
on it and the long, mossgreen velvet curtains were buzzing as though
swarming with invisible bees. It was around these that Mrs. Weasley,


CHAPTER SIX
Hermione, Ginny, Fred, and George were grouped, all looking rather
peculiar, as they had tied cloths over their noses and mouths. Each of
them was also holding a large bottle of black liquid with a nozzle at
the end.
Cover your faces and take a spray, Mrs. Weasley said to Harry
and Ron the moment she saw them, pointing to two more bottles of
black liquid standing on a spindlelegged table. Its Doxycide. Ive
never seen an infestation this bad  what that houseelf s been doing
for the last ten years 
Hermiones face was half concealed by a tea towel but Harry dis
tinctly saw her throw a reproachful look at Mrs. Weasley at these
words.
Kreachers really old, he probably couldnt manage 
Youd be surprised what Kreacher can manage when he wants to,
Hermione, said Sirius, who had just entered the room carrying a
bloodstained bag of what appeared to be dead rats. Ive just been feed
ing Buckbeak, he added, in reply to Harrys inquiring look. I keep him
upstairs in my mothers bedroom. Anyway . . . this writing desk . . .
He dropped the bag of rats onto an armchair, then bent over to ex
amine the locked cabinet which, Harry now noticed for the first time,
was shaking slightly.
Well, Molly, Im pretty sure this is a boggart, said Sirius, peering
through the keyhole, but perhaps we ought to let MadEye have a
shifty at it before we let it out  knowing my mother it could be
something much worse.
Right you are, Sirius, said Mrs. Weasley.
They were both speaking in carefully light, polite voices that told
Harry quite plainly that neither had forgotten their disagreement of
the night before.
A loud, clanging bell sounded from downstairs, followed at once by
the cacophony of screams and wails that had been triggered the previ
ous night by Tonks knocking over the umbrella stand.


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
I keep telling them not to ring the doorbell! said Sirius exasperat
edly, hurrying back out of the room. They heard him thundering
down the stairs as Mrs. Blacks screeches echoed up through the house
once more Stains of dishonor, filthy halfbreeds, blood traitors, children
of filth . . .
Close the door, please, Harry, said Mrs. Weasley.
Harry took as much time as he dared to close the drawing room
door he wanted to listen to what was going on downstairs. Sirius had
obviously managed to shut the curtains over his mothers portrait be
cause she had stopped screaming. He heard Sirius walking down the
hall, then the clattering of the chain on the front door, and then a
deep voice he recognized as Kingsley Shacklebolts saying, Hestias
just relieved me, so shes got Moodys cloak now, thought Id leave a re
port for Dumbledore. . . .
Feeling Mrs. Weasleys eyes on the back of his head, Harry regret
fully closed the drawing room door and rejoined the doxy party.
Mrs. Weasley was bending over to check the page on doxies in
Gilderoy Lockharts Guide to Household Pests, which was lying open on
the sofa.
Right, you lot, you need to be careful, because doxies bite and
their teeth are poisonous. Ive got a bottle of antidote here, but Id
rather nobody needed it.
She straightened up, positioned herself squarely in front of the cur
tains, and beckoned them all forward.
When I say the word, start spraying immediately, she said.
Theyll come flying out at us, I expect, but it says on the sprays one
good squirt will paralyze them. When theyre immobilized, just throw
them in this bucket.
She stepped carefully out of their line of fire and raised her own
spray. All right  squirt!
Harry had been spraying only a few seconds when a fully grown
doxy came soaring out of a fold in the material, shiny beetlelike wings


CHAPTER SIX
whirring, tiny needlesharp teeth bared, its fairylike body covered
with thick black hair and its four tiny fists clenched with fury. Harry
caught it full in the face with a blast of Doxycide it froze in midair
and fell, with a surprisingly loud thunk, onto the worn carpet below.
Harry picked it up and threw it in the bucket.
Fred, what are you doing? said Mrs. Weasley sharply. Spray that
at once and throw it away!
Harry looked around. Fred was holding a struggling doxy between
his forefinger and thumb.
Righto, Fred said brightly, spraying the doxy quickly in the face
so that it fainted, but the moment Mrs. Weasleys back was turned he
pocketed it with a wink.
We want to experiment with doxy venom for our Skiving Snack
boxes, George told Harry under his breath.
Deftly spraying two doxies at once as they soared straight for his
nose, Harry moved closer to George and muttered out of the corner
of his mouth, What are Skiving Snackboxes?
Range of sweets to make you ill, George whispered, keeping a
wary eye on Mrs. Weasleys back. Not seriously ill, mind, just ill
enough to get you out of a class when you feel like it. Fred and I have
been developing them this summer. Theyre doubleended, color
coded chews. If you eat the orange half of the Puking Pastilles, you
throw up. Moment youve been rushed out of the lesson for the hos
pital wing, you swallow the purple half 
  which restores you to full fitness, enabling you to pursue the
leisure activity of your own choice during an hour that would other
wise have been devoted to unprofitable boredom. Thats what were
putting in the adverts, anyway, whispered Fred, who had edged over
out of Mrs. Weasleys line of vision and was now sweeping a few stray
doxies from the floor and adding them to his pocket. But they still
need a bit of work. At the moment our testers are having a bit of trou
ble stopping puking long enough to swallow the purple end.


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
Testers?
Us, said Fred. We take it in turns. George did the Fainting Fan
cies  we both tried the Nosebleed Nougat 
Mum thought wed been dueling, said George.
Joke shop still on, then? Harry muttered, pretending to be ad
justing the nozzle on his spray.
Well, we havent had a chance to get premises yet, said Fred,
dropping his voice even lower as Mrs. Weasley mopped her brow with
her scarf before returning to the attack, so were running it as a mail
order service at the moment. We put advertisements in the Daily
Prophet last week.
All thanks to you, mate, said George. But dont worry . . . Mum
hasnt got a clue. She wont read the Daily Prophet anymore, cause of
it telling lies about you and Dumbledore.
Harry grinned. He had forced the Weasley twins to take the thou
sandGalleon prize money he had won in the Triwizard Tournament
to help them realize their ambition to open a joke shop, but he was
still glad to know that his part in furthering their plans was unknown
to Mrs. Weasley, who did not think that running a joke shop was a
suitable career for two of her sons.
The dedoxying of the curtains took most of the morning. It was
past midday when Mrs. Weasley finally removed her protective scarf,
sank into a sagging armchair, and sprang up again with a cry of dis
gust, having sat on the bag of dead rats. The curtains were no longer
buzzing they hung limp and damp from the intensive spraying un
conscious doxies lay crammed in the bucket at the foot of them beside
a bowl of their black eggs, at which Crookshanks was now sniffing
and Fred and George were shooting covetous looks.
I think well tackle those after lunch.
Mrs. Weasley pointed at the dusty glassfronted cabinets standing
on either side of the mantelpiece. They were crammed with an odd
assortment of objects a selection of rusty daggers, claws, a coiled


CHAPTER SIX
snakeskin, a number of tarnished silver boxes inscribed with languages
Harry could not understand and, least pleasant of all, an ornate crys
tal bottle with a large opal set into the stopper, full of what Harry was
quite sure was blood.
The clanging doorbell rang again. Everyone looked at Mrs. Weasley.
Stay here, she said firmly, snatching up the bag of rats as Mrs.
Blacks screeches started up again from down below. Ill bring up
some sandwiches.
She left the room, closing the door carefully behind her. At once,
everyone dashed over to the window to look down onto the doorstep.
They could see the top of an unkempt gingery head and a stack of pre
cariously balanced cauldrons.
Mundungus! said Hermione. Whats he brought all those caul
drons for?
Probably looking for a safe place to keep them, said Harry. Isnt
that what he was doing the night he was supposed to be tailing me?
Picking up dodgy cauldrons?
Yeah, youre right! said Fred, as the front door opened Mundun
gus heaved his cauldrons through it and disappeared from view.
Blimey, Mum wont like that. . . .
He and George crossed to the door and stood beside it, listening
intently. Mrs. Blacks screaming had stopped again.
Mundungus is talking to Sirius and Kingsley, Fred muttered,
frowning with concentration. Cant hear properly . . . dyou reckon
we can risk the Extendable Ears?
Might be worth it, said George. I could sneak upstairs and get a
pair 
But at that precise moment there was an explosion of sound from
downstairs that rendered Extendable Ears quite unnecessary. All of
them could hear exactly what Mrs. Weasley was shouting at the top of
her voice.


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
WE ARE NOT RUNNING A HIDEOUT FOR STOLEN
GOODS!
I love hearing Mum shouting at someone else, said Fred, with a
satisfied smile on his face as he opened the door an inch or so to allow
Mrs. Weasleys voice to permeate the room better. It makes such a
nice change.
 COMPLETELY IRRESPONSIBLE, AS IF WE HAVENT
GOT ENOUGH TO WORRY ABOUT WITHOUT YOU DRAG
GING STOLEN CAULDRONS INTO THE HOUSE 
The idiots are letting her get into her stride, said George, shaking
his head. Youve got to head her off early, otherwise she builds up a
head of steam and goes on for hours. And shes been dying to have a
go at Mundungus ever since he sneaked off when he was supposed to
be following you, Harry  and there goes Siriuss mum again 
Mrs. Weasleys voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and screams from
the portraits in the hall. George made to shut the door to drown the
noise, but before he could do so, a houseelf edged into the room.
Except for the filthy rag tied like a loincloth around its middle, it
was completely naked. It looked very old. Its skin seemed to be several
times too big for it and though it was bald like all houseelves, there
was a quantity of white hair growing out of its large, batlike ears. Its
eyes were a bloodshot and watery gray, and its fleshy nose was large
and rather snoutlike.
The elf took absolutely no notice of Harry and the rest. Acting as
though it could not see them, it shuffled hunchbacked, slowly and
doggedly, toward the far end of the room, muttering under its breath
all the while in a hoarse, deep voice like a bullfrogs, . . . Smells like
a drain and a criminal to boot, but shes no better, nasty old blood
traitor with her brats messing up my Mistresss house, oh my poor
Mistress, if she knew, if she knew the scum theyve let in her house,
what would she say to old Kreacher, oh the shame of it, Mudbloods


CHAPTER SIX
and werewolves and traitors and thieves, poor old Kreacher, what can
he do. . . .
Hello, Kreacher, said Fred very loudly, closing the door with a
snap.
The houseelf froze in his tracks, stopped muttering, and then gave
a very pronounced and very unconvincing start of surprise.
Kreacher did not see Young Master, he said, turning around and
bowing to Fred. Still facing the carpet, he added, perfectly audibly,
Nasty little brat of a blood traitor it is.
Sorry? said George. Didnt catch that last bit.
Kreacher said nothing, said the elf, with a second bow to George,
adding in a clear undertone, and theres its twin, unnatural little
beasts they are.
Harry didnt know whether to laugh or not. The elf straightened
up, eyeing them all very malevolently, and apparently convinced that
they could not hear him as he continued to mutter.
. . . and theres the Mudblood, standing there bold as brass, oh if
my Mistress knew, oh how shed cry, and theres a new boy, Kreacher
doesnt know his name, what is he doing here, Kreacher doesnt
know . . .
This is Harry, Kreacher, said Hermione tentatively. Harry
Potter.
Kreachers pale eyes widened and he muttered faster and more furi
ously than ever.
The Mudblood is talking to Kreacher as though she is my friend,
if Kreachers Mistress saw him in such company, oh what would she
say 
Dont call her a Mudblood! said Ron and Ginny together, very
angrily.
It doesnt matter, Hermione whispered, hes not in his right
mind, he doesnt know what hes 


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
Dont kid yourself, Hermione, he knows exactly what hes saying,
said Fred, eyeing Kreacher with great dislike.
Kreacher was still muttering, his eyes on Harry.
Is it true? Is it Harry Potter? Kreacher can see the scar, it must be
true, thats that boy who stopped the Dark Lord, Kreacher wonders
how he did it 
Dont we all, Kreacher? said Fred.
What do you want anyway? George asked.
Kreachers huge eyes darted onto George.
Kreacher is cleaning, he said evasively.
A likely story, said a voice behind Harry.
Sirius had come back he was glowering at the elf from the door
way. The noise in the hall had abated perhaps Mrs. Weasley and
Mundungus had moved their argument down into the kitchen. At the
sight of Sirius, Kreacher flung himself into a ridiculously low bow that
flattened his snoutlike nose on the floor.
Stand up straight, said Sirius impatiently. Now, what are you up
to?
Kreacher is cleaning, the elf repeated. Kreacher lives to serve the
noble house of Black 
 and its getting blacker every day, its filthy, said Sirius.
Master always liked his little joke, said Kreacher, bowing again,
and continuing in an undertone, Master was a nasty ungrateful swine
who broke his mothers heart 
My mother didnt have a heart, Kreacher, Sirius snapped. She
kept herself alive out of pure spite.
Kreacher bowed again and said, Whatever Master says, then
muttered furiously, Master is not fit to wipe slime from his mothers
boots, oh my poor Mistress, what would she say if she saw Kreacher
serving him, how she hated him, what a disappointment he was 
I asked you what you were up to, said Sirius coldly. Every time


CHAPTER SIX
you show up pretending to be cleaning, you sneak something off to
your room so we cant throw it out.
Kreacher would never move anything from its proper place in
Masters house, said the elf, then muttered very fast, Mistress would
never forgive Kreacher if the tapestry was thrown out, seven centuries
its been in the family, Kreacher must save it, Kreacher will not let
Master and the blood traitors and the brats destroy it 
I thought it might be that, said Sirius, casting a disdainful look at
the opposite wall. Shell have put another Permanent Sticking Charm
on the back of it, I dont doubt, but if I can get rid of it I certainly will.
Now go away, Kreacher.
It seemed that Kreacher did not dare disobey a direct order never
theless, the look he gave Sirius as he shuffled out past him was redolent
of deepest loathing and he muttered all the way out of the room.
 comes back from Azkaban ordering Kreacher around, oh my
poor Mistress, what would she say if she saw the house now, scum liv
ing in it, her treasures thrown out, she swore he was no son of hers
and hes back, they say hes a murderer too 
Keep muttering and I will be a murderer! said Sirius irritably, and
he slammed the door shut on the elf.
Sirius, hes not right in the head, said Hermione pleadingly, I
dont think he realizes we can hear him.
Hes been alone too long, said Sirius, taking mad orders from
my mothers portrait and talking to himself, but he was always a foul
little 
If you just set him free, said Hermione hopefully, maybe 
We cant set him free, he knows too much about the Order, said
Sirius curtly. And anyway, the shock would kill him. You suggest to
him that he leaves this house, see how he takes it.
Sirius walked across the room, where the tapestry Kreacher had
been trying to protect hung the length of the wall. Harry and the oth
ers followed.


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
The tapestry looked immensely old it was faded and looked as
though doxies had gnawed it in places nevertheless, the golden thread
with which it was embroidered still glinted brightly enough to show
them a sprawling family tree dating back as far as Harry could tell to
the Middle Ages. Large words at the very top of the tapestry read
The Noble and Most Ancient House of Black
Toujours Pur
Youre not on here! said Harry, after scanning the bottom of the
tree.
I used to be there, said Sirius, pointing at a small, round, charred
hole in the tapestry, rather like a cigarette burn. My sweet old mother
blasted me off after I ran away from home  Kreachers quite fond of
muttering the story under his breath.
You ran away from home?
When I was about sixteen, said Sirius. Id had enough.
Where did you go? asked Harry, staring at him.
Your dads place, said Sirius. Your grandparents were really good
about it they sort of adopted me as a second son. Yeah, I camped out
at your dads during the school holidays, and then when I was seven
teen I got a place of my own, my Uncle Alphard had left me a decent
bit of gold  hes been wiped off here too, thats probably why 
anyway, after that I looked after myself. I was always welcome at Mr.
and Mrs. Potters for Sunday lunch, though.
But . . . why did you . . . ?
Leave? Sirius smiled bitterly and ran a hand through his long, un
kempt hair. Because I hated the whole lot of them my parents, with
their pureblood mania, convinced that to be a Black made you prac
tically royal . . . my idiot brother, soft enough to believe them . . .
thats him.
Sirius jabbed a finger at the very bottom of the tree, at the name


CHAPTER SIX
regulus black. A date of death some fifteen years previously fol
lowed the date of birth.
He was younger than me, said Sirius, and a much better son, as
I was constantly reminded.
But he died, said Harry.
Yeah, said Sirius. Stupid idiot . . . he joined the Death Eaters.
Youre kidding!
Come on, Harry, havent you seen enough of this house to tell
what kind of wizards my family were? said Sirius testily.
Were  were your parents Death Eaters as well?
No, no, but believe me, they thought Voldemort had the right
idea, they were all for the purification of the Wizarding race, getting
rid of Muggleborns and having purebloods in charge. They werent
alone either, there were quite a few people, before Voldemort showed
his true colors, who thought he had the right idea about things. . . .
They got cold feet when they saw what he was prepared to do to get
power, though. But I bet my parents thought Regulus was a right lit
tle hero for joining up at first.
Was he killed by an Auror? Harry asked tentatively.
Oh no, said Sirius. No, he was murdered by Voldemort. Or on
Voldemorts orders, more likely, I doubt Regulus was ever important
enough to be killed by Voldemort in person. From what I found out
after he died, he got in so far, then panicked about what he was being
asked to do and tried to back out. Well, you dont just hand in your
resignation to Voldemort. Its a lifetime of service or death.
Lunch, said Mrs. Weasleys voice.
She was holding her wand high in front of her, balancing a huge
tray loaded with sandwiches and cake on its tip. She was very red in
the face and still looked angry. The others moved over to her, eager for
some food, but Harry remained with Sirius, who had bent closer to
the tapestry.


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
I havent looked at this for years. Theres Phineas Nigellus . . . my
greatgreatgrandfather, see? Least popular headmaster Hogwarts ever
had . . . and Araminta Meliflua . . . cousin of my mothers . . . tried to
force through a Ministry Bill to make Mugglehunting legal . . . and
dear Aunt Elladora . . . she started the family tradition of beheading
houseelves when they got too old to carry tea trays . . . of course,
anytime the family produced someone halfway decent they were dis
owned. I see Tonks isnt on here. Maybe thats why Kreacher wont
take orders from her  hes supposed to do whatever anyone in the
family asks him. . . .
You and Tonks are related? Harry asked, surprised.
Oh yeah, her mother, Andromeda, was my favorite cousin, said
Sirius, examining the tapestry carefully. No, Andromedas not on here
either, look 
He pointed to another small round burn mark between two names,
Bellatrix and Narcissa.
Andromedas sisters are still here because they made lovely, re
spectable pureblood marriages, but Andromeda married a Muggle
born, Ted Tonks, so 
Sirius mimed blasting the tapestry with a wand and laughed sourly.
Harry, however, did not laugh he was too busy staring at the names
to the right of Andromedas burn mark. A double line of gold
embroidery linked Narcissa Black with Lucius Malfoy, and a single
vertical gold line from their names led to the name Draco.
Youre related to the Malfoys!
The pureblood families are all interrelated, said Sirius. If youre
only going to let your sons and daughters marry purebloods your
choice is very limited, there are hardly any of us left. Molly and I are
cousins by marriage and Arthurs something like my second cousin
once removed. But theres no point looking for them on here  if
ever a family was a bunch of blood traitors its the Weasleys.


CHAPTER SIX
But Harry was now looking at the name to the left of Andromedas
burn Bellatrix Black, which was connected by a double line to Rodol
phus Lestrange.
Lestrange . . . Harry said aloud. The name had stirred something
in his memory he knew it from somewhere, but for a moment he
couldnt think where, though it gave him an odd, creeping sensation
in the pit of his stomach.
Theyre in Azkaban, said Sirius shortly.
Harry looked at him curiously.
Bellatrix and her husband Rodolphus came in with Barty Crouch,
Junior, said Sirius in the same brusque voice. Rodolphuss brother,
Rabastan, was with them too.
And Harry remembered He had seen Bellatrix Lestrange inside
Dumbledores Pensieve, the strange device in which thoughts and
memories could be stored a tall dark woman with heavylidded eyes,
who had stood at her trial and proclaimed her continuing allegiance to
Lord Voldemort, her pride that she had tried to find him after his
downfall and her conviction that she would one day be rewarded for
her loyalty.
You never said she was your 
Does it matter if shes my cousin? snapped Sirius. As far as Im
concerned, theyre not my family. Shes certainly not my family. I
havent seen her since I was your age, unless you count a glimpse of her
coming in to Azkaban. Dyou think Im proud of having relatives like
her?
Sorry, said Harry quickly, I didnt mean  I was just surprised,
thats all 
It doesnt matter, dont apologize, Sirius mumbled at once. He
turned away from the tapestry, his hands deep in his pockets. I dont
like being back here, he said, staring across the drawing room. I
never thought Id be stuck in this house again.
Harry understood completely. He knew how he would feel if


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
forced, when he was grown up and thought he was free of the place
forever, to return and live at number four, Privet Drive.
Its ideal for headquarters, of course, Sirius said. My father put
every security measure known to Wizardkind on it when he lived
here. Its Unplottable, so Muggles could never come and call  as if
theyd have wanted to  and now Dumbledores added his protec
tion, youd be hard put to find a safer house anywhere. Dumbledores
SecretKeeper for the Order, you know  nobody can find headquar
ters unless he tells them personally where it is  that note Moody
showed you last night, that was from Dumbledore. . . . Sirius gave a
short, barklike laugh. If my parents could see the use it was being put
to now . . . well, my mothers portrait should give you some idea. . . .
He scowled for a moment, then sighed.
I wouldnt mind if I could just get out occasionally and do some
thing useful. Ive asked Dumbledore whether I can escort you to your
hearing  as Snuffles, obviously  so I can give you a bit of moral
support, what dyou think?
Harry felt as though his stomach had sunk through the dusty
carpet. He had not thought about the hearing once since dinner the
previous evening in the excitement of being back with the people he
liked best, of hearing everything that was going on, it had completely
flown his mind. At Siriuss words, however, the crushing sense of
dread returned to him. He stared at Hermione and the Weasleys, all
tucking into their sandwiches, and thought how he would feel if they
went back to Hogwarts without him.
Dont worry, Sirius said. Harry looked up and realized that Sirius
had been watching him. Im sure theyre going to clear you, theres
definitely something in the International Statute of Secrecy about be
ing allowed to use magic to save your own life.
But if they do expel me, said Harry, quietly, can I come back
here and live with you?
Sirius smiled sadly.


CHAPTER SIX
Well see.
Id feel a lot better about the hearing if I knew I didnt have to go
back to the Dursleys, Harry pressed him.
They must be bad if you prefer this place, said Sirius gloomily.
Hurry up, you two, or there wont be any food left, Mrs. Weasley
called.
Sirius heaved another great sigh, cast a dark look at the tapestry,
and he and Harry went to join the others.
Harry tried his best not to think about the hearing while they emp
tied the glass cabinets that afternoon. Fortunately for him, it was a job
that required a lot of concentration, as many of the objects in there
seemed very reluctant to leave their dusty shelves. Sirius sustained a
bad bite from a silver snuffbox within seconds, his bitten hand had
developed an unpleasant crusty covering like a tough brown glove.
Its okay, he said, examining the hand with interest before tap
ping it lightly with his wand and restoring its skin to normal, must
be Wartcap powder in there.
He threw the box aside into the sack where they were depositing
the debris from the cabinets Harry saw George wrap his own hand
carefully in a cloth moments later and sneak the box into his already
doxyfilled pocket.
They found an unpleasantlooking silver instrument, something
like a manylegged pair of tweezers, which scuttled up Harrys arm
like a spider when he picked it up, and attempted to puncture his
skin Sirius seized it and smashed it with a heavy book entitled
Natures Nobility A Wizarding Genealogy. There was a musical box
that emitted a faintly sinister, tinkling tune when wound, and they all
found themselves becoming curiously weak and sleepy until Ginny
had the sense to slam the lid shut also a heavy locket that none of
them could open, a number of ancient seals and, in a dusty box, an
Order of Merlin, First Class, that had been awarded to Siriuss grand
father for Services to the Ministry.


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
It means he gave them a load of gold, said Sirius contemptuously,
throwing the medal into the rubbish sack.
Several times, Kreacher sidled into the room and attempted to
smuggle things away under his loincloth, muttering horrible curses
every time they caught him at it. When Sirius wrested a large golden
ring bearing the Black crest from his grip Kreacher actually burst into
furious tears and left the room sobbing under his breath and calling
Sirius names Harry had never heard before.
It was my fathers, said Sirius, throwing the ring into the sack.
Kreacher wasnt quite as devoted to him as to my mother, but I still
caught him snogging a pair of my fathers old trousers last week.
Mrs. Weasley kept them all working very hard over the next few days.
The drawing room took three days to decontaminate finally the only
undesirable things left in it were the tapestry of the Black family tree,
which resisted all their attempts to remove it from the wall, and the
rattling writing desk Moody had not dropped by headquarters yet, so
they could not be sure what was inside it.
They moved from the drawing room to a dining room on the
ground floor where they found spiders large as saucers lurking in the
dresser Ron left the room hurriedly to make a cup of tea and did not
return for an hour and a half. The china, which bore the Black crest
and motto, was all thrown unceremoniously into a sack by Sirius, and
the same fate met a set of old photographs in tarnished silver frames,
all of whose occupants squealed shrilly as the glass covering them
smashed.
Snape might refer to their work as cleaning, but in Harrys opin
ion they were really waging war on the house, which was putting up a
very good fight, aided and abetted by Kreacher. The houseelf kept
appearing wherever they were congregated, his muttering becoming
more and more offensive as he attempted to remove anything he
could from the rubbish sacks. Sirius went as far as to threaten him


CHAPTER SIX
with clothes, but Kreacher fixed him with a watery stare and said,
Master must do as Master wishes, before turning away and mutter
ing very loudly, but Master will not turn Kreacher away, no, because
Kreacher knows what they are up to, oh yes, he is plotting against the
Dark Lord, yes, with these Mudbloods and traitors and scum. . . .
At which Sirius, ignoring Hermiones protests, seized Kreacher by
the back of his loincloth and threw him bodily from the room.
The doorbell rang several times a day, which was the cue for Siriuss
mother to start shrieking again, and for Harry and the others to at
tempt to eavesdrop on the visitor, though they gleaned very little from
the brief glimpses and snatches of conversation they were able to
sneak before Mrs. Weasley recalled them to their tasks. Snape flitted in
and out of the house several times more, though to Harrys relief they
never came facetoface he also caught sight of his Transfiguration
teacher, Professor McGonagall, looking very odd in a Muggle dress
and coat, though she also seemed too busy to linger.
Sometimes, however, the visitors stayed to help Tonks joined them
for a memorable afternoon in which they found a murderous old
ghoul lurking in an upstairs toilet, and Lupin, who was staying in the
house with Sirius but who left it for long periods to do mysterious
work for the Order, helped them repair a grandfather clock that had
developed the unpleasant habit of shooting heavy bolts at passersby.
Mundungus redeemed himself slightly in Mrs. Weasleys eyes by res
cuing Ron from an ancient set of purple robes that had tried to stran
gle him when he removed them from their wardrobe.
Despite the fact that he was still sleeping badly, still having dreams
about corridors and locked doors that made his scar prickle, Harry
was managing to have fun for the first time all summer. As long as he
was busy he was happy when the action abated, however, whenever
he dropped his guard, or lay exhausted in bed watching blurred shad
ows move across the ceiling, the thought of the looming Ministry


THE NOBLE AND MOST
ANCIENT HOUSE OF BLACK
hearing returned to him. Fear jabbed at his insides like needles as he
wondered what was going to happen to him if he was expelled. The
idea was so terrible that he did not dare voice it aloud, not even to
Ron and Hermione, who, though he often saw them whispering to
gether and casting anxious looks in his direction, followed his lead in
not mentioning it. Sometimes he could not prevent his imagination
showing him a faceless Ministry official who was snapping his wand
in two and ordering him back to the Dursleys . . . but he would not
go. He was determined on that. He would come back here to Grim
mauld Place and live with Sirius.
He felt as though a brick had dropped into his stomach when Mrs.
Weasley turned to him during dinner on Wednesday evening and said
quietly, Ive ironed your best clothes for tomorrow morning, Harry,
and I want you to wash your hair tonight too. A good first impression
can work wonders.
Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny all stopped talking and
looked over at him. Harry nodded and tried to keep eating his chops,
but his mouth had become so dry he could not chew.
How am I getting there? he asked Mrs. Weasley, trying to sound
unconcerned.
Arthurs taking you to work with him, said Mrs. Weasley gently.
Mr. Weasley smiled encouragingly at Harry across the table.
You can wait in my office until its time for the hearing, he said.
Harry looked over at Sirius, but before he could ask the question,
Mrs. Weasley had answered it.
Professor Dumbledore doesnt think its a good idea for Sirius to
go with you, and I must say I 
 think hes quite right, said Sirius through clenched teeth.
Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips.
When did Dumbledore tell you that? Harry said, staring at
Sirius.


CHAPTER SIX
He came last night, when you were in bed, said Mr. Weasley.
Sirius stabbed moodily at a potato with his fork. Harry dropped his
own eyes to his plate. The thought that Dumbledore had been in the
house on the eve of his hearing and not asked to see him made him
feel, if that were possible, even worse.


C H A P T E R S E V E N
THE MINISTRY
OF MAGIC
H
arry awoke at halfpast five the next morning as abruptly and
completely as if somebody had yelled in his ear. For a few
moments he lay immobile as the prospect of the hearing filled every
tiny particle of his brain, then, unable to bear it, he leapt out of bed
and put on his glasses. Mrs. Weasley had laid out his freshly laundered
jeans and Tshirt at the foot of his bed. Harry scrambled into them.
The blank picture on the wall sniggered again.
Ron was lying sprawled on his back with his mouth wide open, fast
asleep. He did not stir as Harry crossed the room, stepped out onto
the landing, and closed the door softly behind him. Trying not to
think of the next time he would see Ron, when they might no longer
be fellow students at Hogwarts, Harry walked quietly down the stairs,
past the heads of Kreachers ancestors, and into the kitchen.
He had expected it to be empty, but it was not. When he reached
the door he heard the soft rumble of voices on the other side and
when he pushed it open he saw Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, Sirius, Lupin,
and Tonks sitting there almost as though they were waiting for him.


CHAPTER SEVEN
All were fully dressed except Mrs. Weasley, who was wearing a quilted,
purple dressing gown. She leapt to her feet the moment he entered.
Breakfast, she said as she pulled out her wand and hurried over to
the fire.
Mmmorning, Harry, yawned Tonks. Her hair was blonde and
curly this morning. Sleep all right?
Yeah, said Harry.
Ive bbbeen up all night, she said, with another shuddering
yawn. Come and sit down. . . .
She drew out a chair, knocking over the one beside it in the process.
What do you want, Harry? Mrs. Weasley called. Porridge?
Muffins? Kippers? Bacon and eggs? Toast?
Just  just toast, thanks, said Harry.
Lupin glanced at Harry, then said to Tonks, What were you saying
about Scrimgeour?
Oh . . . yeah . . . well, we need to be a bit more careful, hes been
asking Kingsley and me funny questions. . . .
Harry felt vaguely grateful that he was not required to join in the
conversation. His insides were squirming. Mrs. Weasley placed a cou
ple of pieces of toast and marmalade in front of him he tried to eat,
but it was like chewing carpet. Mrs. Weasley sat down on his other
side and started fussing with his Tshirt, tucking in the label and
smoothing out creases across the shoulders. He wished she wouldnt.
. . . and Ill have to tell Dumbledore I cant do night duty tomor
row, Im just tttoo tired, Tonks finished, yawning hugely again.
Ill cover for you, said Mr. Weasley. Im okay, Ive got a report to
finish anyway. . . .
Mr. Weasley was not wearing wizards robes but a pair of pin
striped trousers and an old bomber jacket. He turned from Tonks to
Harry.
How are you feeling?


THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
Harry shrugged.
Itll all be over soon, Mr. Weasley said bracingly. In a few hours
time youll be cleared.
Harry said nothing.
The hearings on my floor, in Amelia Boness office. Shes Head of
the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and shes the one wholl
be questioning you.
Amelia Bones is okay, Harry, said Tonks earnestly. Shes fair,
shell hear you out.
Harry nodded, still unable to think of anything to say.
Dont lose your temper, said Sirius abruptly. Be polite and stick
to the facts.
Harry nodded again.
The laws on your side, said Lupin quietly. Even underage wiz
ards are allowed to use magic in lifethreatening situations.
Something very cold trickled down the back of Harrys neck for a
moment he thought someone was putting a Disillusionment Charm
on him again, then he realized that Mrs. Weasley was attacking his
hair with a wet comb. She pressed hard on the top of his head.
Doesnt it ever lie flat? she said desperately.
Harry shook his head.
Mr. Weasley checked his watch and looked up at Harry.
I think well go now, he said. Were a bit early, but I think youll
be better off there than hanging around here.
Okay, said Harry automatically, dropping his toast and getting to
his feet.
Youll be all right, Harry, said Tonks, patting him on the arm.
Good luck, said Lupin. Im sure it will be fine.
And if its not, said Sirius grimly, Ill see to Amelia Bones for
you. . . .
Harry smiled weakly. Mrs. Weasley hugged him.


CHAPTER SEVEN
Weve all got our fingers crossed, she said.
Right, said Harry. Well . . . see you later then.
He followed Mr. Weasley upstairs and along the hall. He could hear
Siriuss mother grunting in her sleep behind her curtains. Mr. Weasley
unbolted the door and they stepped out into the cold, gray dawn.
You dont normally walk to work, do you? Harry asked him, as
they set off briskly around the square.
No, I usually Apparate, said Mr. Weasley, but obviously you cant,
and I think its best we arrive in a thoroughly nonmagical fashion . . .
makes a better impression, given what youre being disciplined for. . . .
Mr. Weasley kept his hand inside his jacket as they walked. Harry
knew it was clenched around his wand. The rundown streets were
almost deserted, but when they arrived at the miserable little Under
ground station they found it already full of early morning commuters.
As ever when he found himself in close proximity to Muggles going
about their daily business, Mr. Weasley was hard put to contain his
enthusiasm.
Simply fabulous, he whispered, indicating the automatic ticket
machines. Wonderfully ingenious.
Theyre out of order, said Harry, pointing at the sign.
Yes, but even so . . . said Mr. Weasley, beaming fondly at them.
They bought their tickets instead from a sleepylooking guard
Harry handled the transaction, as Mr. Weasley was not very good
with Muggle money and five minutes later they were boarding an
Underground train that rattled them off toward the center of London.
Mr. Weasley kept anxiously checking and rechecking the Under
ground map above the windows.
Four stops, Harry . . . three stops left now . . . two stops to go,
Harry . . .
They got off at a station in the very heart of London, swept from
the train in a tide of besuited men and women carrying briefcases. Up


THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
the escalator they went, through the ticket barrier Mr. Weasley
delighted with the way the stile swallowed his ticket, and emerged
onto a broad street lined with imposinglooking buildings, already
full of traffic.
Where are we? said Mr. Weasley blankly, and for one heart
stopping moment Harry thought they had gotten off at the wrong sta
tion despite Mr. Weasleys continual references to the map but a
second later he said, Ah yes . . . this way, Harry, and led him down
a side road.
Sorry, he said, but I never come by train and it all looks rather
different from a Muggle perspective. As a matter of fact Ive never
even used the visitors entrance before.
The farther they walked, the smaller and less imposing the build
ings became, until finally they reached a street that contained several
rather shabbylooking offices, a pub, and an overflowing dumpster.
Harry had expected a rather more impressive location for the Ministry
of Magic.
Here we are, said Mr. Weasley brightly, pointing at an old red
telephone box, which was missing several panes of glass and stood be
fore a heavily graffittied wall. After you, Harry.
He opened the telephone box door.
Harry stepped inside, wondering what on earth this was about. Mr.
Weasley folded himself in beside Harry and closed the door. It was a
tight fit Harry was jammed against the telephone apparatus, which
was hanging crookedly from the wall as though a vandal had tried to
rip it off. Mr. Weasley reached past Harry for the receiver.
Mr. Weasley, I think this might be out of order too, Harry said.
No, no, Im sure its fine, said Mr. Weasley, holding the receiver
above his head and peering at the dial. Lets see . . . six . . . he dialed
the number, two . . . four . . . and another four . . . and another
two . . .


CHAPTER SEVEN
As the dial whirred smoothly back into place, a cool female voice
sounded inside the telephone box, not from the receiver in Mr.
Weasleys hand, but as loudly and plainly as though an invisible
woman were standing right beside them.
Welcome to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and
business.
Er . . . said Mr. Weasley, clearly uncertain whether he should talk
into the receiver or not he compromised by holding the mouthpiece
to his ear, Arthur Weasley, Misuse of Muggle Artifacts Office, here
to escort Harry Potter, who has been asked to attend a disciplinary
hearing. . . .
Thank you, said the cool female voice. Visitor, please take the
badge and attach it to the front of your robes.
There was a click and a rattle, and Harry saw something slide out
of the metal chute where returned coins usually appeared. He picked
it up It was a square silver badge with Harry Potter, Disciplinary Hear
ing on it. He pinned it to the front of his Tshirt as the female voice
spoke again.
Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and
present your wand for registration at the security desk, which is lo
cated at the far end of the Atrium.
The floor of the telephone box shuddered. They were sinking
slowly into the ground. Harry watched apprehensively as the pave
ment rose up past the glass windows of the telephone box until dark
ness closed over their heads. Then he could see nothing at all he could
only hear a dull grinding noise as the telephone box made its way
down through the earth. After about a minute, though it felt much
longer to Harry, a chink of golden light illuminated his feet and,
widening, rose up his body, until it hit him in the face and he had to
blink to stop his eyes from watering.
The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant day, said the
womans voice.


THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
The door of the telephone box sprang open and Mr. Weasley
stepped out of it, followed by Harry, whose mouth had fallen open.
They were standing at one end of a very long and splendid hall with a
highly polished, dark wood floor. The peacockblue ceiling was inlaid
with gleaming golden symbols that were continually moving and chang
ing like some enormous heavenly notice board. The walls on each side
were paneled in shiny dark wood and had many gilded fireplaces set into
them. Every few seconds a witch or wizard would emerge from one of
the lefthand fireplaces with a soft whoosh on the righthand side, short
queues of wizards were forming before each fireplace, waiting to depart.
Halfway down the hall was a fountain. A group of golden statues,
larger than lifesize, stood in the middle of a circular pool. Tallest of
them all was a noblelooking wizard with his wand pointing straight
up in the air. Grouped around him were a beautiful witch, a centaur,
a goblin, and a houseelf. The last three were all looking adoringly up
at the witch and wizard. Glittering jets of water were flying from the
ends of the two wands, the point of the centaurs arrow, the tip of
the goblins hat, and each of the houseelf s ears, so that the tinkling
hiss of falling water was added to the pops and cracks of Apparators
and the clatter of footsteps as hundreds of witches and wizards, most
of whom were wearing glum, earlymorning looks, strode toward a set
of golden gates at the far end of the hall.
This way, said Mr. Weasley.
They joined the throng, wending their way between the Ministry
workers, some of whom were carrying tottering piles of parchment,
others battered briefcases, still others reading the Daily Prophet as they
walked. As they passed the fountain Harry saw silver Sickles and
bronze Knuts glinting up at him from the bottom of the pool. A
small, smudged sign beside it read
All proceeds from the Fountain of Magical Brethren will be given to
St. Mungos Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries


CHAPTER SEVEN
If Im not expelled from Hogwarts, Ill put in ten Galleons, Harry
found himself thinking desperately.
Over here, Harry, said Mr. Weasley, and they stepped out of the
stream of Ministry employees heading for the golden gates, toward a
desk on the left, over which hung a sign saying security. A badly
shaven wizard in peacockblue robes looked up as they approached
and put down his Daily Prophet.
Im escorting a visitor, said Mr. Weasley, gesturing toward Harry.
Step over here, said the wizard in a bored voice.
Harry walked closer to him and the wizard held up a long golden
rod, thin and flexible as a car aerial, and passed it up and down Harrys
front and back.
Wand, grunted the security wizard at Harry, putting down the
golden instrument and holding out his hand.
Harry produced his wand. The wizard dropped it onto a strange
brass instrument, which looked something like a set of scales with
only one dish. It began to vibrate. A narrow strip of parchment came
speeding out of a slit in the base. The wizard tore this off and read the
writing upon it.
Eleven inches, phoenixfeather core, been in use four years. That
correct?
Yes, said Harry nervously.
I keep this, said the wizard, impaling the slip of parchment on a
small brass spike. You get this back, he added, thrusting the wand at
Harry.
Thank you.
Hang on. . . . said the wizard slowly.
His eyes had darted from the silver visitors badge on Harrys chest
to his forehead.
Thank you, Eric, said Mr. Weasley firmly, and grasping Harry by
the shoulder, he steered him away from the desk and back into the
stream of wizards and witches walking through the golden gates.


THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
Jostled slightly by the crowd, Harry followed Mr. Weasley through
the gates into the smaller hall beyond, where at least twenty lifts stood
behind wrought golden grilles. Harry and Mr. Weasley joined the
crowd around one of them. A big, bearded wizard holding a large
cardboard box stood nearby. The box was emitting rasping noises.
All right, Arthur? said the wizard, nodding at Mr. Weasley.
Whatve you got there, Bob? asked Mr. Weasley, looking at the
box.
Were not sure, said the wizard seriously. We thought it was a
bogstandard chicken until it started breathing fire. Looks like a seri
ous breach of the Ban on Experimental Breeding to me.
With a great jangling and clattering a lift descended in front of
them the golden grille slid back and Harry and Mr. Weasley moved in
side it with the rest of the crowd. Harry found himself jammed against
the back wall of the lift. Several witches and wizards were looking at
him curiously he stared at his feet to avoid catching anyones eye, flat
tening his fringe as he did so. The grilles slid shut with a crash and the
lift ascended slowly, chains rattling all the while, while the same cool
female voice Harry had heard in the telephone box rang out again.
Level seven, Department of Magical Games and Sports, incorpo
rating the British and Irish Quidditch League Headquarters, Official
Gobstones Club, and Ludicrous Patents Office.
The lift doors opened Harry glimpsed an untidylooking corridor,
with various posters of Quidditch teams tacked lopsidedly on the
walls one of the wizards in the lift, who was carrying an armful of
broomsticks, extricated himself with difficulty and disappeared down
the corridor. The doors closed, the lift juddered upward again, and the
womans voice said, Level six, Department of Magical Transport, in
corporating the Floo Network Authority, Broom Regulatory Control,
Portkey Office, and Apparation Test Center.
Once again the lift doors opened and four or five witches and
wizards got out at the same time, several paper airplanes swooped


CHAPTER SEVEN
into the lift. Harry stared up at them as they flapped idly around
above his head they were a pale violet color and he could see ministry
of magic stamped along the edges of their wings.
Just Interdepartmental memos, Mr. Weasley muttered to him.
We used to use owls, but the mess was unbelievable . . . droppings all
over the desks . . .
As they clattered upward again, the memos flapped around the
swaying lamp in the lifts ceiling.
Level five, Department of International Magical Cooperation, in
corporating the International Magical Trading Standards Body, the
International Magical Office of Law, and the International Confeder
ation of Wizards, British Seats.
When the doors opened, two of the memos zoomed out with a few
more witches and wizards, but several more memos zoomed in, so that
the light from the lamp in the ceiling flickered and flashed as they
darted around it.
Level four, Department for the Regulation and Control of
Magical Creatures, incorporating Beast, Being, and Spirit Divisions,
Goblin Liaison Office, and Pest Advisory Bureau.
 Scuse, said the wizard carrying the firebreathing chicken and
he left the lift pursued by a little flock of memos. The doors clanged
shut yet again.
Level three, Department of Magical Accidents and Catastrophes,
including the Accidental Magic Reversal Squad, Obliviator Head
quarters, and MuggleWorthy Excuse Committee.
Everybody left the lift on this floor except Mr. Weasley, Harry, and
a witch who was reading an extremely long piece of parchment that
was trailing on the ground. The remaining memos continued to soar
around the lamp as the lift juddered upward again, and then the doors
opened and the voice said, Level two, Department of Magical Law
Enforcement, including the Improper Use of Magic Office, Auror
Headquarters, and Wizengamot Administration Services.


THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
This is us, Harry, said Mr. Weasley, and they followed the witch
out of the lift into a corridor lined with doors. My office is on the
other side of the floor.
Mr. Weasley, said Harry, as they passed a window through which
sunlight was streaming, arent we underground?
Yes, we are, said Mr. Weasley, those are enchanted windows
Magical Maintenance decide what weather were getting every day.
We had two months of hurricanes last time they were angling for a
pay raise. . . . Just round here, Harry.
They turned a corner, walked through a pair of heavy oak doors,
and emerged in a cluttered, open area divided into cubicles, which
were buzzing with talk and laughter. Memos were zooming in and out
of cubicles like miniature rockets. A lopsided sign on the nearest cu
bicle read auror headquarters.
Harry looked surreptitiously through the doorways as they passed.
The Aurors had covered their cubicle walls with everything from pic
tures of wanted wizards and photographs of their families, to posters
of their favorite Quidditch teams and articles from the Daily Prophet.
A scarletrobed man with a ponytail longer than Bills was sitting with
his boots up on his desk, dictating a report to his quill. A little farther
along, a witch with a patch over her eye was talking over the top of her
cubicle wall to Kingsley Shacklebolt.
Morning, Weasley, said Kingsley carelessly, as they drew nearer.
Ive been wanting a word with you, have you got a second?
Yes, if it really is a second, said Mr. Weasley, Im in rather a
hurry.
They were talking to each other as though they hardly knew each
other, and when Harry opened his mouth to say hello to Kingsley, Mr.
Weasley stood on his foot. They followed Kingsley along the row and
into the very last cubicle.
Harry received a slight shock Siriuss face was blinking down at
him from every direction. Newspaper cuttings and old photographs


CHAPTER SEVEN
 even the one of Sirius being best man at the Potters wedding 
papered the walls. The only Siriusfree space was a map of the world
in which little red pins were glowing like jewels.
Here, said Kingsley brusquely to Mr. Weasley, shoving a sheaf of
parchment into his hand, I need as much information as possible on
flying Muggle vehicles sighted in the last twelve months. Weve re
ceived information that Black might still be using his old motorcycle.
Kingsley tipped Harry an enormous wink and added, in a whisper,
Give him the magazine, he might find it interesting. Then he said in
normal tones, And dont take too long, Weasley, the delay on that
firelegs report held our investigation up for a month.
If you had read my report you would know that the term is
firearms,  said Mr. Weasley coolly. And Im afraid youll have to wait
for information on motorcycles, were extremely busy at the mo
ment. He dropped his voice and said, If you can get away before
seven, Mollys making meatballs.
He beckoned to Harry and led him out of Kingsleys cubicle,
through a second set of oak doors, into another passage, turned left,
marched along another corridor, turned right into a dimly lit and dis
tinctly shabby corridor, and finally reached a dead end, where a door
on the left stood ajar, revealing a broom cupboard, and a door on the
right bore a tarnished brass plaque reading misuse of muggle
artifacts.
Mr. Weasleys dingy office seemed to be slightly smaller than the
broom cupboard. Two desks had been crammed inside it and there was
barely room to move around them because of all the overflowing filing
cabinets lining the walls, on top of which were tottering piles of files.
The little wall space available bore witness to Mr. Weasleys obsessions
there were several posters of cars, including one of a dismantled engine,
two illustrations of postboxes he seemed to have cut out of Muggle
childrens books, and a diagram showing how to wire a plug.
Sitting on top of Mr. Weasleys overflowing intray was an old


THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
toaster that was hiccuping in a disconsolate way and a pair of empty
leather gloves that were twiddling their thumbs. A photograph of the
Weasley family stood beside the intray. Harry noticed that Percy ap
peared to have walked out of it.
We havent got a window, said Mr. Weasley apologetically, taking
off his bomber jacket and placing it on the back of his chair. Weve
asked, but they dont seem to think we need one. Have a seat, Harry,
doesnt look as if Perkins is in yet.
Harry squeezed himself into the chair behind Perkinss desk while
Mr. Weasley rifled through the sheaf of parchment Kingsley Shackle
bolt had given him.
Ah, he said, grinning, as he extracted a copy of a magazine enti
tled The Quibbler from its midst, yes . . . He flicked through it.
Yes, hes right, Im sure Sirius will find that very amusing  oh dear,
whats this now?
A memo had just zoomed in through the open door and fluttered
to rest on top of the hiccuping toaster. Mr. Weasley unfolded it and
read aloud,  Third regurgitating public toilet reported in Bethnal
Green, kindly investigate immediately. This is getting ridiculous. . . .
A regurgitating toilet?
AntiMuggle pranksters, said Mr. Weasley, frowning. We had
two last week, one in Wimbledon, one in Elephant and Castle. Mug
gles are pulling the flush and instead of everything disappearing 
well, you can imagine. The poor things keep calling in those  those
pumbles, I think theyre called  you know, the ones who mend pipes
and things 
Plumbers?
 exactly, yes, but of course theyre flummoxed. I only hope we
can catch whoevers doing it.
Will it be Aurors who catch them?
Oh no, this is too trivial for Aurors, itll be the ordinary Magical
Law Enforcement Patrol  ah, Harry, this is Perkins.


CHAPTER SEVEN
A stooped, timidlooking old wizard with fluffy white hair had just
entered the room, panting.
Oh Arthur! he said desperately, without looking at Harry.
Thank goodness, I didnt know what to do for the best, whether to
wait here for you or not, Ive just sent an owl to your home but youve
obviously missed it  an urgent message came ten minutes ago 
I know about the regurgitating toilet, said Mr. Weasley.
No, no, its not the toilet, its the Potter boys hearing  theyve
changed the time and venue  it starts at eight oclock now and its
down in old Courtroom Ten 
Down in old  but they told me  Merlins beard 
Mr. Weasley looked at his watch, let out a yelp, and leapt from his
chair.
Quick, Harry, we should have been there five minutes ago!
Perkins flattened himself against the filing cabinets as Mr. Weasley
left the office at a run, Harry on his heels.
Why have they changed the time? Harry said breathlessly as they
hurtled past the Auror cubicles people poked out their heads and
stared as they streaked past. Harry felt as though he had left all his in
sides back at Perkinss desk.
Ive no idea, but thank goodness we got here so early, if youd
missed it it would have been catastrophic!
Mr. Weasley skidded to a halt beside the lifts and jabbed impa
tiently at the down button.
Come ON!
The lift clattered into view and they hurried inside. Every time it
stopped Mr. Weasley cursed furiously and pummelled the number
nine button.
Those courtrooms havent been used in years, said Mr. Weasley
angrily. I cant think why theyre doing it down there  unless 
but no . . .


THE MINISTRY OF MAGIC
A plump witch carrying a smoking goblet entered the lift at that
moment, and Mr. Weasley did not elaborate.
The Atrium, said the cool female voice and the golden grilles slid
open, showing Harry a distant glimpse of the golden statues in the
fountain. The plump witch got out and a sallowskinned wizard with
a very mournful face got in.
Morning, Arthur, he said in a sepulchral voice as the lift began to
descend. Dont often see you down here. . . .
Urgent business, Bode, said Mr. Weasley, who was bouncing on
the balls of his feet and throwing anxious looks over at Harry.
Ah, yes, said Bode, surveying Harry unblinkingly. Of course.
Harry barely had emotion to spare for Bode, but his unfaltering
gaze did not make him feel any more comfortable.
Department of Mysteries, said the cool female voice, and left it at
that.
Quick, Harry, said Mr. Weasley as the lift doors rattled open, and
they sped up a corridor that was quite different from those above. The
walls were bare there were no windows and no doors apart from a
plain black one set at the very end of the corridor. Harry expected
them to go through it, but instead Mr. Weasley seized him by the arm
and dragged him to the left, where there was an opening leading to a
flight of steps.
Down here, down here, panted Mr. Weasley, taking two steps at
a time. The lift doesnt even come down this far . . . why theyre do
ing it there . . .
They reached the bottom of the steps and ran along yet another
corridor, which bore a great resemblance to that which led to Snapes
dungeon at Hogwarts, with rough stone walls and torches in brackets.
The doors they passed here were heavy wooden ones with iron bolts
and keyholes.
Courtroom . . . ten . . . I think . . . were nearly . . . yes.


CHAPTER SEVEN
Mr. Weasley stumbled to a halt outside a grimy dark door with an
immense iron lock and slumped against the wall, clutching at a stitch
in his chest.
Go on, he panted, pointing his thumb at the door. Get in
there.
Arent  arent you coming with  ?
No, no, Im not allowed. Good luck!
Harrys heart was beating a violent tattoo against his Adams apple.
He swallowed hard, turned the heavy iron door handle, and stepped
inside the courtroom.


C H A P T E R E I G H T
THE HEARING
H
arry gasped he could not help himself. The large dungeon he
had entered was horribly familiar. He had not only seen it
before, he had been here before This was the place he had visited in
side Dumbledores Pensieve, the place where he had watched the
Lestranges sentenced to life imprisonment in Azkaban.
The walls were made of dark stone, dimly lit by torches. Empty
benches rose on either side of him, but ahead, in the highest benches
of all, were many shadowy figures. They had been talking in low
voices, but as the heavy door swung closed behind Harry an ominous
silence fell.
A cold male voice rang across the courtroom.
Youre late.
Sorry, said Harry nervously. II didnt know the time had
changed.
That is not the Wizengamots fault, said the voice. An owl was
sent to you this morning. Take your seat.
Harry dropped his gaze to the chair in the center of the room, the
arms of which were covered in chains. He had seen those chains spring


CHAPTER EIGHT
to life and bind whoever sat between them. His footsteps echoed
loudly as he walked across the stone floor. When he sat gingerly on the
edge of the chair the chains clinked rather threateningly but did not
bind him. Feeling rather sick he looked up at the people seated at the
bench above.
There were about fifty of them, all, as far as he could see, wearing
plumcolored robes with an elaborately worked silver W on the left
hand side of the chest and all staring down their noses at him, some
with very austere expressions, others looks of frank curiosity.
In the very middle of the front row sat Cornelius Fudge, the Min
ister of Magic. Fudge was a portly man who often sported a limegreen
bowler hat, though today he had dispensed with it he had dispensed
too with the indulgent smile he had once worn when he spoke to
Harry. A broad, squarejawed witch with very short gray hair sat on
Fudges left she wore a monocle and looked forbidding. On Fudges
right was another witch, but she was sitting so far back on the bench
that her face was in shadow.
Very well, said Fudge. The accused being present  finally 
let us begin. Are you ready? he called down the row.
Yes, sir, said an eager voice Harry knew. Rons brother Percy was
sitting at the very end of the front bench. Harry looked at Percy, ex
pecting some sign of recognition from him, but none came. Percys
eyes, behind his hornrimmed glasses, were fixed on his parchment, a
quill poised in his hand.
Disciplinary hearing of the twelfth of August, said Fudge in a
ringing voice, and Percy began taking notes at once, into offenses
committed under the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Un
derage Sorcery and the International Statute of Secrecy by Harry
James Potter, resident at number four, Privet Drive, Little Whinging,
Surrey.
Interrogators Cornelius Oswald Fudge, Minister of Magic
Amelia Susan Bones, Head of the Department of Magical Law En


THE HEARING
forcement Dolores Jane Umbridge, Senior Undersecretary to the
Minister. Court Scribe, Percy Ignatius Weasley 
 Witness for the defense, Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumble
dore, said a quiet voice from behind Harry, who turned his head so
fast he cricked his neck.
Dumbledore was striding serenely across the room wearing long
midnightblue robes and a perfectly calm expression. His long silver
beard and hair gleamed in the torchlight as he drew level with Harry
and looked up at Fudge through the halfmoon spectacles that rested
halfway down his very crooked nose.
The members of the Wizengamot were muttering. All eyes were
now on Dumbledore. Some looked annoyed, others slightly fright
ened two elderly witches in the back row, however, raised their hands
and waved in welcome.
A powerful emotion had risen in Harrys chest at the sight of Dum
bledore, a fortified, hopeful feeling rather like that which phoenix
song gave him. He wanted to catch Dumbledores eye, but Dumble
dore was not looking his way he was continuing to look up at the
obviously flustered Fudge.
Ah, said Fudge, who looked thoroughly disconcerted. Dumble
dore. Yes. You  er  got our  er  message that the time and 
er  place of the hearing had been changed, then?
I must have missed it, said Dumbledore cheerfully. However,
due to a lucky mistake I arrived at the Ministry three hours early, so
no harm done.
Yes  well  I suppose well need another chair  I 
Weasley, could you  ?
Not to worry, not to worry, said Dumbledore pleasantly he took
out his wand, gave it a little flick, and a squashy chintz armchair ap
peared out of nowhere next to Harry. Dumbledore sat down, put the
tips of his long fingers together, and looked at Fudge over them with
an expression of polite interest. The Wizengamot was still muttering


CHAPTER EIGHT
and fidgeting restlessly only when Fudge spoke again did they settle
down.
Yes, said Fudge again, shuffling his notes. Well, then. So. The
charges. Yes.
He extricated a piece of parchment from the pile before him, took
a deep breath, and read, The charges against the accused are as fol
lows That he did knowingly, deliberately, and in full awareness of the
illegality of his actions, having received a previous written warning
from the Ministry of Magic on a similar charge, produce a Patronus
Charm in a Muggleinhabited area, in the presence of a Muggle, on
August the second at twentythree minutes past nine, which consti
tutes an offense under paragraph C of the Decree for the Reasonable
Restriction of Underage Sorcery, , and also under section thir
teen of the International Confederation of Wizards Statute of Secrecy.
You are Harry James Potter, of number four, Privet Drive, Little
Whinging, Surrey? Fudge said, glaring at Harry over the top of his
parchment.
Yes, Harry said.
You received an official warning from the Ministry for using ille
gal magic three years ago, did you not?
Yes, but 
And yet you conjured a Patronus on the night of the second of
August? said Fudge.
Yes, said Harry, but 
Knowing that you are not permitted to use magic outside school
while you are under the age of seventeen?
Yes, but 
Knowing that you were in an area full of Muggles?
Yes, but 
Fully aware that you were in close proximity to a Muggle at the
time?
Yes, said Harry angrily, but I only used it because we were 


THE HEARING
The witch with the monocle on Fudges left cut across him in a
booming voice.
You produced a fully fledged Patronus?
Yes, said Harry, because 
A corporeal Patronus?
A  what? said Harry.
Your Patronus had a clearly defined form? I mean to say, it was
more than vapor or smoke?
Yes, said Harry, feeling both impatient and slightly desperate,
its a stag, its always a stag.
Always? boomed Madam Bones. You have produced a Patronus
before now?
Yes, said Harry, Ive been doing it for over a year 
And you are fifteen years old?
Yes, and 
You learned this at school?
Yes, Professor Lupin taught me in my third year, because of the 
Impressive, said Madam Bones, staring down at him, a true
Patronus at that age . . . very impressive indeed.
Some of the wizards and witches around her were muttering again
a few nodded, but others were frowning and shaking their heads.
Its not a question of how impressive the magic was, said Fudge
in a testy voice. In fact, the more impressive the worse it is, I would
have thought, given that the boy did it in plain view of a Muggle!
Those who had been frowning now murmured in agreement, but
it was the sight of Percys sanctimonious little nod that goaded Harry
into speech.
I did it because of the dementors! he said loudly, before anyone
could interrupt him again.
He had expected more muttering, but the silence that fell seemed
to be somehow denser than before.
Dementors? said Madam Bones after a moment, raising her thick


CHAPTER EIGHT
eyebrows so that her monocle looked in danger of falling out. What
do you mean, boy?
I mean there were two dementors down that alleyway and they
went for me and my cousin!
Ah, said Fudge again, smirking unpleasantly as he looked around
at the Wizengamot, as though inviting them to share the joke. Yes.
Yes, I thought wed be hearing something like this.
Dementors in Little Whinging? Madam Bones said in tones of
great surprise. I dont understand 
Dont you, Amelia? said Fudge, still smirking. Let me explain.
Hes been thinking it through and decided dementors would make a
very nice little cover story, very nice indeed. Muggles cant see demen
tors, can they, boy? Highly convenient, highly convenient . . . so its
just your word and no witnesses. . . .
Im not lying! said Harry loudly, over another outbreak of mut
tering from the court. There were two of them, coming from oppo
site ends of the alley, everything went dark and cold and my cousin
felt them and ran for it 
Enough, enough! said Fudge with a very supercilious look on his
face. Im sorry to interrupt what Im sure would have been a very
wellrehearsed story 
Dumbledore cleared his throat. The Wizengamot fell silent again.
We do, in fact, have a witness to the presence of dementors in that
alleyway, he said, other than Dudley Dursley, I mean.
Fudges plump face seemed to slacken, as though somebody had let
air out of it. He stared down at Dumbledore for a moment or two,
then, with the appearance of a man pulling himself back together,
said, We havent got time to listen to more taradiddles, Im afraid,
Dumbledore. I want this dealt with quickly 
I may be wrong, said Dumbledore pleasantly, but I am sure that
under the Wizengamot Charter of Rights, the accused has the right to


THE HEARING
present witnesses for his or her case? Isnt that the policy of the De
partment of Magical Law Enforcement, Madam Bones? he contin
ued, addressing the witch in the monocle.
True, said Madam Bones. Perfectly true.
Oh, very well, very well, snapped Fudge. Where is this person?
I brought her with me, said Dumbledore. Shes just outside the
door. Should I  ?
No  Weasley, you go, Fudge barked at Percy, who got up at
once, hurried down the stone steps from the judges balcony, and has
tened past Dumbledore and Harry without glancing at them.
A moment later, Percy returned, followed by Mrs. Figg. She looked
scared and more batty than ever. Harry wished she had thought to
change out of her carpet slippers.
Dumbledore stood up and gave Mrs. Figg his chair, conjuring a
second one for himself.
Full name? said Fudge loudly, when Mrs. Figg had perched her
self nervously on the very edge of her seat.
Arabella Doreen Figg, said Mrs. Figg in her quavery voice.
And who exactly are you? said Fudge, in a bored and lofty voice.
Im a resident of Little Whinging, close to where Harry Potter
lives, said Mrs. Figg.
We have no record of any witch or wizard living in Little Whing
ing other than Harry Potter, said Madam Bones at once. That situ
ation has always been closely monitored, given . . . given past events.
Im a Squib, said Mrs. Figg. So you wouldnt have me registered,
would you?
A Squib, eh? said Fudge, eyeing her suspiciously. Well be check
ing that. Youll leave details of your parentage with my assistant,
Weasley. Incidentally, can Squibs see dementors? he added, looking
left and right along the bench where he sat.
Yes, we can! said Mrs. Figg indignantly.


CHAPTER EIGHT
Fudge looked back down at her, his eyebrows raised. Very well,
he said coolly. What is your story?
I had gone out to buy cat food from the corner shop at the end of
Wisteria Walk, shortly after nine on the evening of the second of
August, gabbled Mrs. Figg at once, as though she had learned what
she was saying by heart, when I heard a disturbance down the alley
way between Magnolia Crescent and Wisteria Walk. On approaching
the mouth of the alleyway I saw dementors running 
Running? said Madam Bones sharply. Dementors dont run,
they glide.
Thats what I meant to say, said Mrs. Figg quickly, patches of
pink appearing in her withered cheeks. Gliding along the alley to
ward what looked like two boys.
What did they look like? said Madam Bones, narrowing her eyes
so that the monocles edges disappeared into her flesh.
Well, one was very large and the other one rather skinny 
No, no, said Madam Bones impatiently, the dementors . . . de
scribe them.
Oh, said Mrs. Figg, the pink flush creeping up her neck now.
They were big. Big and wearing cloaks.
Harry felt a horrible sinking in the pit of his stomach. Whatever
Mrs. Figg said to the contrary, it sounded to him as though the most
she had ever seen was a picture of a dementor, and a picture could
never convey the truth of what these beings were like the eerie way
they moved, hovering inches over the ground, or the rotting smell of
them, or that terrible, rattling noise they made as they sucked on the
surrounding air . . . A dumpy wizard with a large black mustache in
the second row leaned close to his neighbor, a frizzyhaired witch, and
whispered something in her ear. She smirked and nodded.
Big and wearing cloaks, repeated Madam Bones coolly, while
Fudge snorted derisively. I see. Anything else?


THE HEARING
Yes, said Mrs. Figg. I felt them. Everything went cold, and this
was a very warm summers night, mark you. And I felt . . . as though
all happiness had gone from the world . . . and I remembered . . .
dreadful things. . . .
Her voice shook and died.
Madam Bones eyes widened slightly. Harry could see red marks
under her eyebrow where the monocle had dug into it.
What did the dementors do? she asked, and Harry felt a rush of
hope.
They went for the boys, said Mrs. Figg, her voice stronger and
more confident now, the pink flush ebbing away from her face. One
of them had fallen. The other was backing away, trying to repel the
dementor. That was Harry. He tried twice and produced silver vapor.
On the third attempt, he produced a Patronus, which charged down
the first dementor and then, with his encouragement, chased away the
second from his cousin. And that . . . that was what happened, Mrs.
Figg finished, somewhat lamely.
Madam Bones looked down at Mrs. Figg in silence Fudge was not
looking at her at all, but fidgeting with his papers. Finally he raised his
eyes and said, rather aggressively Thats what you saw, is it?
That was what happened, Mrs. Figg repeated.
Very well, said Fudge. You may go.
Mrs. Figg cast a frightened look from Fudge to Dumbledore, then
got up and shuffled off toward the door again. Harry heard it thud
shut behind her.
Not a very convincing witness, said Fudge loftily.
Oh, I dont know, said Madam Bones in her booming voice. She
certainly described the effects of a dementor attack very accurately.
And I cant imagine why she would say they were there if they
werent 
But dementors wandering into a Muggle suburb and just happening


CHAPTER EIGHT
to come across a wizard? snorted Fudge. The odds on that must be
very, very long, even Bagman wouldnt have bet 
Oh, I dont think any of us believe the dementors were there by
coincidence, said Dumbledore lightly.
The witch sitting to the right of Fudge with her face in shadow
moved slightly, but everyone else was quite still and silent.
And what is that supposed to mean? asked Fudge icily.
It means that I think they were ordered there, said Dumbledore.
I think we might have a record of it if someone had ordered a pair
of dementors to go strolling through Little Whinging! barked Fudge.
Not if the dementors are taking orders from someone other than
the Ministry of Magic these days, said Dumbledore calmly. I have
already given you my views on this matter, Cornelius.
Yes, you have, said Fudge forcefully, and I have no reason to be
lieve that your views are anything other than bilge, Dumbledore. The
dementors remain in place in Azkaban and are doing everything we
ask them to.
Then, said Dumbledore, quietly but clearly, we must ask our
selves why somebody within the Ministry ordered a pair of dementors
into that alleyway on the second of August.
In the complete silence that greeted these words, the witch to the
right of Fudge leaned forward so that Harry saw her for the first time.
He thought she looked just like a large, pale toad. She was rather
squat with a broad, flabby face, as little neck as Uncle Vernon, and a
very wide, slack mouth. Her eyes were large, round, and slightly
bulging. Even the little black velvet bow perched on top of her short
curly hair put him in mind of a large fly she was about to catch on a
long sticky tongue.
The Chair recognizes Dolores Jane Umbridge, Senior Undersecre
tary to the Minister, said Fudge.
The witch spoke in a fluttery, girlish, highpitched voice that took
Harry aback he had been expecting a croak.


THE HEARING
Im sure I must have misunderstood you, Professor Dumbledore,
she said with a simper that left her big, round eyes as cold as ever. So
silly of me. But it sounded for a teensy moment as though you were sug
gesting that the Ministry of Magic had ordered an attack on this boy!
She gave a silvery laugh that made the hairs on the back of Harrys
neck stand up. A few other members of the Wizengamot laughed with
her. It could not have been plainer that not one of them was really
amused.
If it is true that the dementors are taking orders only from the Min
istry of Magic, and it is also true that two dementors attacked Harry
and his cousin a week ago, then it follows logically that somebody at
the Ministry might have ordered the attacks, said Dumbledore po
litely. Of course, these particular dementors may have been outside
Ministry control 
There are no dementors outside Ministry control! snapped
Fudge, who had turned brick red.
Dumbledore inclined his head in a little bow.
Then undoubtedly the Ministry will be making a full inquiry into
why two dementors were so very far from Azkaban and why they at
tacked without authorization.
It is not for you to decide what the Ministry of Magic does or does
not do, Dumbledore! snapped Fudge, now a shade of magenta of
which Uncle Vernon would have been proud.
Of course it isnt, said Dumbledore mildly. I was merely ex
pressing my confidence that this matter will not go uninvestigated.
He glanced at Madam Bones, who readjusted her monocle and
stared back at him, frowning slightly.
I would remind everybody that the behavior of these dementors,
if indeed they are not figments of this boys imagination, is not the
subject of this hearing! said Fudge. We are here to examine Harry
Potters offenses under the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of
Underage Sorcery!


CHAPTER EIGHT
Of course we are, said Dumbledore, but the presence of demen
tors in that alleyway is highly relevant. Clause seven of the Decree
states that magic may be used before Muggles in exceptional circum
stances, and as those exceptional circumstances include situations that
threaten the life of the wizard or witch himself, or witches, wizards, or
Muggles present at the time of the 
We are familiar with clause seven, thank you very much! snarled
Fudge.
Of course you are, said Dumbledore courteously. Then we are
in agreement that Harrys use of the Patronus Charm in these circum
stances falls precisely into the category of exceptional circumstances it
describes?
If there were dementors, which I doubt 
You have heard from an eyewitness, Dumbledore interrupted. If
you still doubt her truthfulness, call her back, question her again. I am
sure she would not object.
I  that  not  blustered Fudge, fiddling with the papers be
fore him. Its  I want this over with today, Dumbledore!
But naturally, you would not care how many times you heard
from a witness, if the alternative was a serious miscarriage of justice,
said Dumbledore.
Serious miscarriage, my hat! said Fudge at the top of his voice.
Have you ever bothered to tot up the number of cockandbull sto
ries this boy has come out with, Dumbledore, while trying to cover up
his flagrant misuse of magic out of school? I suppose youve forgotten
the Hover Charm he used three years ago 
That wasnt me, it was a houseelf! said Harry.
YOU SEE? roared Fudge, gesturing flamboyantly in Harrys di
rection. A houseelf! In a Muggle house! I ask you 
The houseelf in question is currently in the employ of Hogwarts
School, said Dumbledore. I can summon him here in an instant to
give evidence if you wish.


THE HEARING
I  not  I havent got time to listen to houseelves! Anyway,
thats not the only  he blew up his aunt, for Gods sake! Fudge
shouted, banging his fist on the judges bench and upsetting a bottle
of ink.
And you very kindly did not press charges on that occasion, ac
cepting, I presume, that even the best wizards cannot always control
their emotions, said Dumbledore calmly, as Fudge attempted to
scrub the ink off his notes.
And I havent even started on what he gets up to at school 
 but as the Ministry has no authority to punish Hogwarts
students for misdemeanors at school, Harrys behavior there is not rel
evant to this inquiry, said Dumbledore, politely as ever, but now
with a suggestion of coolness behind his words.
Oho! said Fudge. Not our business what he does at school, eh?
You think so?
The Ministry does not have the power to expel Hogwarts stu
dents, Cornelius, as I reminded you on the night of the second of
August, said Dumbledore. Nor does it have the right to confiscate
wands until charges have been successfully proven, again, as I re
minded you on the night of the second of August. In your admirable
haste to ensure that the law is upheld, you appear, inadvertently I am
sure, to have overlooked a few laws yourself.
Laws can be changed, said Fudge savagely.
Of course they can, said Dumbledore, inclining his head. And
you certainly seem to be making many changes, Cornelius. Why, in
the few short weeks since I was asked to leave the Wizengamot, it has
already become the practice to hold a full criminal trial to deal with a
simple matter of underage magic!
A few of the wizards above them shifted uncomfortably in their
seats. Fudge turned a slightly deeper shade of puce. The toadlike
witch on his right, however, merely gazed at Dumbledore, her face
quite expressionless.


CHAPTER EIGHT
As far as I am aware, however, Dumbledore continued, there is
no law yet in place that says this courts job is to punish Harry for
every bit of magic he has ever performed. He has been charged with a
specific offense and he has presented his defense. All he and I can do
now is to await your verdict.
Dumbledore put his fingertips together again and said no more.
Fudge glared at him, evidently incensed. Harry glanced sideways at
Dumbledore, seeking reassurance he was not at all sure that Dumble
dore was right in telling the Wizengamot, in effect, that it was about
time they made a decision. Again, however, Dumbledore seemed
oblivious to Harrys attempt to catch his eye. He continued to look up
at the benches where the entire Wizengamot had fallen into urgent,
whispered conversations.
Harry looked at his feet. His heart, which seemed to have swollen
to an unnatural size, was thumping loudly under his ribs. He had ex
pected the hearing to last longer than this. He was not at all sure that
he had made a good impression. He had not really said very much. He
ought to have explained more fully about the dementors, about how
he had fallen over, about how both he and Dudley had nearly been
kissed. . . .
Twice he looked up at Fudge and opened his mouth to speak, but
his swollen heart was now constricting his air passages and both times
he merely took a deep breath and looked back at his shoes.
Then the whispering stopped. Harry wanted to look up at the
judges, but found that it was really much, much easier to keep exam
ining his laces.
Those in favor of clearing the accused of all charges? said Madam
Boness booming voice.
Harrys head jerked upward. There were hands in the air, many of
them . . . more than half ! Breathing very fast, he tried to count, but
before he could finish Madam Bones had said, And those in favor of
conviction?


THE HEARING
Fudge raised his hand so did half a dozen others, including the
witch on his right and the heavily mustached wizard and the frizzy
haired witch in the second row.
Fudge glanced around at them all, looking as though there was
something large stuck in his throat, then lowered his own hand. He
took two deep breaths and then said, in a voice distorted by sup
pressed rage, Very well, very well . . . cleared of all charges.
Excellent, said Dumbledore briskly, springing to his feet, pulling
out his wand, and causing the two chintz armchairs to vanish. Well, I
must be getting along. Good day to you all.
And without looking once at Harry, he swept from the dungeon.


C H A P T E R N I N E
THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
D
umbledores abrupt departure took Harry completely by sur
prise. He remained sitting where he was in the chained chair,
struggling with his feelings of shock and relief. The Wizengamot were
all getting to their feet, talking, and gathering up their papers and
packing them away. Harry stood up. Nobody seemed to be paying
him the slightest bit of attention except the toadlike witch on Fudges
right, who was now gazing down at him instead of at Dumbledore. Ig
noring her, he tried to catch Fudges eye, or Madam Boness, wanting
to ask whether he was free to go, but Fudge seemed quite determined
not to notice Harry, and Madam Bones was busy with her briefcase,
so he took a few tentative steps toward the exit and when nobody
called him back, broke into a very fast walk.
He took the last few steps at a run, wrenched open the door, and al
most collided with Mr. Weasley, who was standing right outside,
looking pale and apprehensive.
Dumbledore didnt say 
Cleared, Harry said, pulling the door closed behind him, of all
charges!


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
Beaming, Mr. Weasley seized Harry by the shoulders.
Harry, thats wonderful! Well, of course, they couldnt have found
you guilty, not on the evidence, but even so, I cant pretend I wasnt 
But Mr. Weasley broke off, because the courtroom door had just
opened again. The Wizengamot were filing out.
Merlins beard, said Mr. Weasley wonderingly, pulling Harry
aside to let them all pass, you were tried by the full court?
I think so, said Harry quietly.
One or two of the passing wizards nodded to Harry as they passed
and a few, including Madam Bones, said, Morning, Arthur, to Mr.
Weasley, but most averted their eyes. Cornelius Fudge and the toad
like witch were almost the last to leave the dungeon. Fudge acted as
though Mr. Weasley and Harry were part of the wall, but again, the
witch looked almost appraisingly at Harry as she passed. Last of all to
pass was Percy. Like Fudge, he completely ignored his father and
Harry he marched past clutching a large roll of parchment and a
handful of spare quills, his back rigid and his nose in the air. The lines
around Mr. Weasleys mouth tightened slightly, but other than this he
gave no sign that he had noticed his third son.
Im going to take you straight back so you can tell the others the
good news, he said, beckoning Harry forward as Percys heels disap
peared up the stairs to the ninth level. Ill drop you off on the way to
that toilet in Bethnal Green. Come on. . . .
So what will you have to do about the toilet? Harry asked, grin
ning. Everything suddenly seemed five times funnier than usual. It
was starting to sink in He was cleared, he was going back to Hogwarts.
Oh, its a simple enough antijinx, said Mr. Weasley as they
mounted the stairs, but its not so much having to repair the damage,
its more the attitude behind the vandalism, Harry. Mugglebaiting
might strike some wizards as funny, but its an expression of some
thing much deeper and nastier, and I for one 
Mr. Weasley broke off in midsentence. They had just reached the


CHAPTER NINE
ninthlevel corridor, and Cornelius Fudge was standing a few feet
away from them, talking quietly to a tall man with sleek blond hair
and a pointed, pale face.
The second man turned at the sound of their footsteps. He too
broke off in midconversation, his cold gray eyes narrowed and fixed
upon Harrys face.
Well, well, well . . . Patronus Potter, said Lucius Malfoy coolly.
Harry felt winded, as though he had just walked into something
heavy. He had last seen those cool gray eyes through slits in a Death
Eaters hood, and last heard that mans voice jeering in a dark grave
yard while Lord Voldemort tortured him. He could not believe that
Lucius Malfoy dared look him in the face he could not believe that he
was here, in the Ministry of Magic, or that Cornelius Fudge was talk
ing to him, when Harry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that Malfoy
was a Death Eater.
The Minister was just telling me about your lucky escape, Potter,
drawled Mr. Malfoy. Quite astonishing, the way you continue to
wriggle out of very tight holes. . . . Snakelike, in fact . . .
Mr. Weasley gripped Harrys shoulder in warning.
Yeah, said Harry, yeah, Im good at escaping. . . .
Lucius Malfoy raised his eyes to Mr. Weasleys face.
And Arthur Weasley too! What are you doing here, Arthur?
I work here, said Mr. Weasley shortly.
Not here, surely? said Mr. Malfoy, raising his eyebrows and glanc
ing toward the door over Mr. Weasleys shoulder. I thought you were
up on the second floor. . . . Dont you do something that involves
sneaking Muggle artifacts home and bewitching them?
No, said Mr. Weasley curtly, his fingers now biting into Harrys
shoulder.
What are you doing here anyway? Harry asked Lucius Malfoy.
I dont think private matters between myself and the Minister are
any concern of yours, Potter, said Malfoy, smoothing the front of his


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
robes Harry distinctly heard the gentle clinking of what sounded like
a full pocket of gold. Really, just because you are Dumbledores fa
vorite boy, you must not expect the same indulgence from the rest of
us. . . . Shall we go up to your office, then, Minister?
Certainly, said Fudge, turning his back on Harry and Mr.
Weasley. This way, Lucius.
They strode off together, talking in low voices. Mr. Weasley did not
let go of Harrys shoulder until they had disappeared into the lift.
Why wasnt he waiting outside Fudges office if theyve got busi
ness to do together? Harry burst out furiously. What was he doing
down here?
Trying to sneak down to the courtroom, if you ask me, said Mr.
Weasley, looking extremely agitated as he glanced over his shoulder as
though making sure they could not be overheard. Trying to find out
whether youd been expelled or not. Ill leave a note for Dumbledore
when I drop you off, he ought to know Malfoys been talking to Fudge
again.
What private business have they got together anyway?
Gold, I expect, said Mr. Weasley angrily. Malfoys been giving
generously to all sorts of things for years. . . . Gets him in with the
right people . . . then he can ask favors . . . delay laws he doesnt want
passed . . . Oh, hes very well connected, Lucius Malfoy. . . .
The lift arrived it was empty except for a flock of memos that
flapped around Mr. Weasleys head as he pressed the button for the
Atrium and the doors clanged shut he waved them away irritably.
Mr. Weasley, said Harry slowly, if Fudge is meeting Death
Eaters like Malfoy, if hes seeing them alone, how do we know they
havent put the Imperius Curse on him?
Dont think it hadnt occurred to us, Harry, muttered Mr.
Weasley. But Dumbledore thinks Fudge is acting of his own accord
at the moment  which, as Dumbledore says, is not a lot of comfort.
. . . Best not talk about it anymore just now, Harry. . . .


CHAPTER NINE
The doors slid open and they stepped out into the now almost
deserted Atrium. Eric the security man was hidden behind his Daily
Prophet again. They had walked straight past the golden fountain be
fore Harry remembered.
Wait. . . . he told Mr. Weasley, and pulling his money bag from
his pocket, he turned back to the fountain.
He looked up into the handsome wizards face, but up close, Harry
thought he looked rather weak and foolish. The witch was wearing a
vapid smile like a beauty contestant, and from what Harry knew of
goblins and centaurs, they were most unlikely to be caught staring this
soppily at humans of any description. Only the houseelf s attitude of
creeping servility looked convincing. With a grin at the thought of
what Hermione would say if she could see the statue of the elf, Harry
turned his money bag upside down and emptied not just ten
Galleons, but the whole contents into the pool at the statues feet.
I knew it! yelled Ron, punching the air. You always get away with
stuff !
They were bound to clear you, said Hermione, who had looked
positively faint with anxiety when Harry had entered the kitchen and
was now holding a shaking hand over her eyes. There was no case
against you, none at all. . . .
Everyone seems quite relieved, though, considering they all knew
Id get off, said Harry, smiling.
Mrs. Weasley was wiping her face on her apron, and Fred, George,
and Ginny were doing a kind of war dance to a chant that went He
got off, he got off, he got off 
Thats enough, settle down! shouted Mr. Weasley, though he too
was smiling. Listen, Sirius, Lucius Malfoy was at the Ministry 
What? said Sirius sharply.
He got off, he got off, he got off 
Be quiet, you three! Yes, we saw him talking to Fudge on level


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
nine, then they went up to Fudges office together. Dumbledore ought
to know.
Absolutely, said Sirius. Well tell him, dont worry.
Well, Id better get going, theres a vomiting toilet in Bethnal
Green waiting for me. Molly, Ill be late, Im covering for Tonks, but
Kingsley might be dropping in for dinner 
He got off, he got off, he got off 
Thats enough  Fred  George  Ginny! said Mrs. Weasley,
as Mr. Weasley left the kitchen. Harry dear, come and sit down, have
some lunch, you hardly ate breakfast. . . .
Ron and Hermione sat themselves down opposite him looking
happier than they had done since he had first arrived at number
twelve, Grimmauld Place, and Harrys feeling of giddy relief, which
had been somewhat dented by his encounter with Lucius Malfoy,
swelled again. The gloomy house seemed warmer and more welcom
ing all of a sudden even Kreacher looked less ugly as he poked his
snoutlike nose into the kitchen to investigate the source of all the
noise.
 Course, once Dumbledore turned up on your side, there was no
way they were going to convict you, said Ron happily, now dishing
great mounds of mashed potatoes onto everyones plates.
Yeah, he swung it for me, said Harry. He felt that it would sound
highly ungrateful, not to mention childish, to say, I wish hed talked
to me, though. Or even looked at me.
And as he thought this, the scar on his forehead burned so badly
that he clapped his hand to it.
Whats up? said Hermione, looking alarmed.
Scar, Harry mumbled. But its nothing. . . . It happens all the
time now. . . .
None of the others had noticed a thing all of them were now help
ing themselves to food while gloating over Harrys narrow escape
Fred, George, and Ginny were still singing. Hermione looked rather


CHAPTER NINE
anxious, but before she could say anything, Ron said happily, I bet
Dumbledore turns up this evening to celebrate with us, you know.
I dont think hell be able to, Ron, said Mrs. Weasley, setting a
huge plate of roast chicken down in front of Harry. Hes really very
busy at the moment.
HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF 
SHUT UP! roared Mrs. Weasley.
Over the next few days Harry could not help noticing that there was
one person within number twelve, Grimmauld Place, who did not
seem wholly overjoyed that he would be returning to Hogwarts. Sir
ius had put up a very good show of happiness on first hearing the
news, wringing Harrys hand and beaming just like the rest of them
soon, however, he was moodier and surlier than before, talking less to
everybody, even Harry, and spending increasing amounts of time shut
up in his mothers room with Buckbeak.
Dont you go feeling guilty! said Hermione sternly, after Harry
had confided some of his feelings to her and Ron while they
scrubbed out a moldy cupboard on the third floor a few days later.
You belong at Hogwarts and Sirius knows it. Personally, I think hes
being selfish.
Thats a bit harsh, Hermione, said Ron, frowning as he at
tempted to prize off a bit of mold that had attached itself firmly to his
finger, you wouldnt want to be stuck inside this house without
company.
Hell have company! said Hermione. Its headquarters to the
Order of the Phoenix, isnt it? He just got his hopes up that Harry
would be coming to live here with him.
I dont think thats true, said Harry, wringing out his cloth. He
wouldnt give me a straight answer when I asked him if I could.
He just didnt want to get his own hopes up even more, said
Hermione wisely. And he probably felt a bit guilty himself, because I


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
think a part of him was really hoping youd be expelled. Then youd
both be outcasts together.
Come off it! said Harry and Ron together, but Hermione merely
shrugged.
Suit yourselves. But I sometimes think Rons mums right, and Sir
ius gets confused about whether youre you or your father, Harry.
So you think hes touched in the head? said Harry heatedly.
No, I just think hes been very lonely for a long time, said
Hermione simply.
At this point Mrs. Weasley entered the bedroom behind them.
Still not finished? she said, poking her head into the cupboard.
I thought you might be here to tell us to have a break! said Ron
bitterly. Dyou know how much mold weve got rid of since we ar
rived here?
You were so keen to help the Order, said Mrs. Weasley, you can
do your bit by making headquarters fit to live in.
I feel like a houseelf, grumbled Ron.
Well, now that you understand what dreadful lives they lead, per
haps youll be a bit more active in S.P.E.W.! said Hermione hopefully,
as Mrs. Weasley left them to it again. You know, maybe it wouldnt
be a bad idea to show people exactly how horrible it is to clean all the
time  we could do a sponsored scrub of Gryffindor common room,
all proceeds to S.P.E.W., it would raise awareness as well as funds 
Ill sponsor you to shut up about spew, Ron muttered irritably,
but only so Harry could hear him.
Harry found himself daydreaming about Hogwarts more and more
as the end of the holidays approached he could not wait to see Hagrid
again, to play Quidditch, even to stroll across the vegetable patches to
the Herbology greenhouses. It would be a treat just to leave this dusty,
musty house, where half of the cupboards were still bolted shut and
Kreacher wheezed insults out of the shadows as you passed, though
Harry was careful not to say any of this within earshot of Sirius.


CHAPTER NINE
The fact was that living at the headquarters of the antiVoldemort
movement was not nearly as interesting or exciting as Harry would
have expected before hed experienced it. Though members of the Or
der of the Phoenix came and went regularly, sometimes staying for
meals, sometimes only for a few minutes whispered conversation,
Mrs. Weasley made sure that Harry and the others were kept well out
of earshot whether Extendable or normal and nobody, not even Sir
ius, seemed to feel that Harry needed to know anything more than he
had heard on the night of his arrival.
On the very last day of the holidays Harry was sweeping up Hed
wigs owl droppings from the top of the wardrobe when Ron entered
their bedroom carrying a couple of envelopes.
Booklists have arrived, he said, throwing one of the envelopes up
to Harry, who was standing on a chair. About time, I thought theyd
forgotten, they usually come much earlier than this. . . .
Harry swept the last of the droppings into a rubbish bag and threw
the bag over Rons head into the wastepaper basket in the corner,
which swallowed it and belched loudly. He then opened his letter It
contained two pieces of parchment, one the usual reminder that term
started on the first of September, the other telling him which books he
would need for the coming year.
Only two new ones, he said, reading the list. The Standard Book
of Spells, Grade , by Miranda Goshawk and Defensive Magical Theory,
by Wilbert Slinkhard.
Crack.
Fred and George Apparated right beside Harry. He was so used to
them doing this by now that he didnt even fall off his chair.
We were just wondering who assigned the Slinkhard book, said
Fred conversationally.
Because it means Dumbledores found a new Defense Against the
Dark Arts teacher, said George.


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
And about time too, said Fred.
What dyou mean? Harry asked, jumping down beside them.
Well, we overheard Mum and Dad talking on the Extendable Ears
a few weeks back, Fred told Harry, and from what they were saying,
Dumbledore was having real trouble finding anyone to do the job this
year.
Not surprising, is it, when you look at whats happened to the last
four? said George.
One sacked, one dead, ones memory removed, and one locked in
a trunk for nine months, said Harry, counting them off on his fin
gers. Yeah, I see what you mean.
Whats up with you, Ron? asked Fred.
Ron did not answer. Harry looked around. Ron was standing very
still with his mouth slightly open, gaping at his letter from Hogwarts.
Whats the matter? said Fred impatiently, moving around Ron to
look over his shoulder at the parchment.
Freds mouth fell open too.
Prefect? he said, staring incredulously at the letter. Prefect?
George leapt forward, seized the envelope in Rons other hand, and
turned it upside down. Harry saw something scarlet and gold fall into
Georges palm.
No way, said George in a hushed voice.
Theres been a mistake, said Fred, snatching the letter out of
Rons grasp and holding it up to the light as though checking for a wa
termark. No one in their right mind would make Ron a prefect. . . .
The twins heads turned in unison and both of them stared at
Harry.
We thought you were a cert! said Fred in a tone that suggested
Harry had tricked them in some way.
We thought Dumbledore was bound to pick you! said George
indignantly.


CHAPTER NINE
Winning the Triwizard and everything! said Fred.
I suppose all the mad stuff mustve counted against him, said
George to Fred.
Yeah, said Fred slowly. Yeah, youve caused too much trouble,
mate. Well, at least one of yous got their priorities right.
He strode over to Harry and clapped him on the back while giving
Ron a scathing look.
Prefect . . . ickle Ronnie the prefect . . .
Oh, Mums going to be revolting, groaned George, thrusting the
prefect badge back at Ron as though it might contaminate him.
Ron, who still had not said a word, took the badge, stared at it for
a moment, and then held it out to Harry as though asking mutely for
confirmation that it was genuine. Harry took it. A large P was super
imposed on the Gryffindor lion. He had seen a badge just like this on
Percys chest on his very first day at Hogwarts.
The door banged open. Hermione came tearing into the room, her
cheeks flushed and her hair flying. There was an envelope in her hand.
Did you  did you get  ?
She spotted the badge in Harrys hand and let out a shriek.
I knew it! she said excitedly, brandishing her letter. Me too,
Harry, me too!
No, said Harry quickly, pushing the badge back into Rons hand.
Its Ron, not me.
It  what?
Rons prefect, not me, Harry said.
Ron? said Hermione, her jaw dropping. But . . . are you sure? I
mean 
She turned red as Ron looked around at her with a defiant expres
sion on his face.
Its my name on the letter, he said.
I . . . said Hermione, looking thoroughly bewildered. I . . . well
. . . wow! Well done, Ron! Thats really 


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
Unexpected, said George, nodding.
No, said Hermione, blushing harder than ever, no, its not . . .
Rons done loads of . . . hes really . . .
The door behind her opened a little wider and Mrs. Weasley
backed into the room carrying a pile of freshly laundered robes.
Ginny said the booklists had come at last, she said, glancing
around at all the envelopes as she made her way over to the bed and
started sorting the robes into two piles. If you give them to me Ill
take them over to Diagon Alley this afternoon and get your books
while youre packing. Ron, Ill have to get you more pajamas, these are
at least six inches too short, I cant believe how fast youre growing . . .
what color would you like?
Get him red and gold to match his badge, said George, smirking.
Match his what? said Mrs. Weasley absently, rolling up a pair of
maroon socks and placing them on Rons pile.
His badge, said Fred, with the air of getting the worst over
quickly. His lovely shiny new prefects badge.
Freds words took a moment to penetrate Mrs. Weasleys preoccu
pation about pajamas.
His . . . but . . . Ron, youre not. . . ?
Ron held up his badge.
Mrs. Weasley let out a shriek just like Hermiones.
I dont believe it! I dont believe it! Oh, Ron, how wonderful! A
prefect! Thats everyone in the family!
What are Fred and I, nextdoor neighbors? said George indig
nantly, as his mother pushed him aside and flung her arms around her
youngest son.
Wait until your father hears! Ron, Im so proud of you, what won
derful news, you could end up Head Boy just like Bill and Percy, its
the first step! Oh, what a thing to happen in the middle of all this
worry, Im just thrilled, oh Ronnie 
Fred and George were both making loud retching noises behind


CHAPTER NINE
her back but Mrs. Weasley did not notice arms tight around Rons
neck, she was kissing him all over his face, which had turned a brighter
scarlet than his badge.
Mum . . . dont . . . Mum, get a grip. . . . he muttered, trying to
push her away.
She let go of him and said breathlessly, Well, what will it be? We
gave Percy an owl, but youve already got one, of course.
Wwhat do you mean? said Ron, looking as though he did not
dare believe his ears.
Youve got to have a reward for this! said Mrs. Weasley fondly.
How about a nice new set of dress robes?
Weve already bought him some, said Fred sourly, who looked as
though he sincerely regretted this generosity.
Or a new cauldron, Charlies old ones rusting through, or a new
rat, you always liked Scabbers 
Mum, said Ron hopefully, can I have a new broom?
Mrs. Weasleys face fell slightly broomsticks were expensive.
Not a really good one! Ron hastened to add. Just  just a new
one for a change . . .
Mrs. Weasley hesitated, then smiled.
Of course you can. . . . Well, Id better get going if Ive got a broom
to buy too. Ill see you all later. . . . Little Ronnie, a prefect! And dont
forget to pack your trunks. . . . A prefect . . . Oh, Im all of a dither!
She gave Ron yet another kiss on the cheek, sniffed loudly, and bus
tled from the room.
Fred and George exchanged looks.
You dont mind if we dont kiss you, do you, Ron? said Fred in a
falsely anxious voice.
We could curtsy, if you like, said George.
Oh, shut up, said Ron, scowling at them.
Or what? said Fred, an evil grin spreading across his face. Going
to put us in detention?


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
Id love to see him try, sniggered George.
He could if you dont watch out! said Hermione angrily, at which
Fred and George burst out laughing and Ron muttered, Drop it,
Hermione.
Were going to have to watch our step, George, said Fred, pre
tending to tremble, with these two on our case. . . .
Yeah, it looks like our lawbreaking days are finally over, said
George, shaking his head.
And with another loud crack, the twins Disapparated.
Those two! said Hermione furiously, staring up at the ceiling,
through which they could now hear Fred and George roaring with
laughter in the room upstairs. Dont pay any attention to them, Ron,
theyre only jealous!
I dont think they are, said Ron doubtfully, also looking up at the
ceiling. Theyve always said only prats become prefects. . . . Still, he
added on a happier note, theyve never had new brooms! I wish I
could go with Mum and choose. . . . Shell never be able to afford a
Nimbus, but theres the new Cleansweep out, thatd be great. . . .
Yeah, I think Ill go and tell her I like the Cleansweep, just so she
knows. . . .
He dashed from the room, leaving Harry and Hermione alone.
For some reason, Harry found that he did not want to look at
Hermione. He turned to his bed, picked up the pile of clean robes
Mrs. Weasley had laid upon it, and crossed the room to his trunk.
Harry? said Hermione tentatively.
Well done, said Harry, so heartily it did not sound like his voice
at all, and still not looking at her. Brilliant. Prefect. Great.
Thanks, said Hermione. Erm  Harry  could I borrow
Hedwig so I can tell Mum and Dad? Theyll be really pleased  I
mean, prefect is something they can understand 
Yeah, no problem, said Harry, still in the horrible hearty voice
that did not belong to him. Take her!


CHAPTER NINE
He leaned over his trunk, laid the robes on the bottom of it, and pre
tended to be rummaging for something while Hermione crossed to the
wardrobe and called Hedwig down. A few moments passed Harry
heard the door close but remained bent double, listening the only
sounds he could hear were the blank picture on the wall sniggering again
and the wastepaper basket in the corner coughing up the owl droppings.
He straightened up and looked behind him. Hermione and Hed
wig had gone. Harry returned slowly to his bed and sank onto it, gaz
ing unseeingly at the foot of the wardrobe.
He had forgotten completely about prefects being chosen in the
fifth year. He had been too anxious about the possibility of being ex
pelled to spare a thought for the fact that badges must be winging
their way toward certain people. But if he had remembered . . . if he
had thought about it . . . what would he have expected?
Not this, said a small and truthful voice inside his head.
Harry screwed up his face and buried it in his hands. He could not
lie to himself if he had known the prefect badge was on its way, he
would have expected it to come to him, not Ron. Did this make him
as arrogant as Draco Malfoy? Did he think himself superior to every
one else? Did he really believe he was better than Ron?
No, said the small voice defiantly.
Was that true? Harry wondered, anxiously probing his own feelings.
Im better at Quidditch, said the voice. But Im not better at anything
else.
That was definitely true, Harry thought he was no better than Ron
in lessons. But what about outside lessons? What about those adven
tures he, Ron, and Hermione had had together since they had started
at Hogwarts, often risking much worse than expulsion?
Well, Ron and Hermione were with me most of the time, said the voice
in Harrys head.
Not all the time, though, Harry argued with himself. They didnt fight


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
Quirrell with me. They didnt take on Riddle and the basilisk. They didnt
get rid of all those dementors the night Sirius escaped. They werent in that
graveyard with me, the night Voldemort returned. . . .
And the same feeling of ill usage that had overwhelmed him on
the night he had arrived rose again. Ive definitely done more, Harry
thought indignantly. Ive done more than either of them!
But maybe, said the small voice fairly, maybe Dumbledore doesnt
choose prefects because theyve got themselves into a load of dangerous situ
ations. . . . Maybe he chooses them for other reasons. . . . Ron must have
something you dont. . . .
Harry opened his eyes and stared through his fingers at the ward
robes clawed feet, remembering what Fred had said.
No one in their right mind would make Ron a prefect. . . .
Harry gave a small snort of laughter. A second later he felt sickened
with himself.
Ron had not asked Dumbledore to give him the prefect badge. This
was not Rons fault. Was he, Harry, Rons best friend in the world,
going to sulk because he didnt have a badge, laugh with the twins
behind Rons back, ruin this for Ron when, for the first time, he had
beaten Harry at something?
At this point Harry heard Rons footsteps on the stairs again. He
stood up, straightened his glasses, and hitched a grin onto his face as
Ron bounded back through the door.
Just caught her! he said happily. She says shell get the Clean
sweep if she can.
Cool, Harry said, and he was relieved to hear that his voice had
stopped sounding hearty. Listen  Ron  well done, mate.
The smile faded off Rons face.
I never thought it would be me! he said, shaking his head, I
thought it would be you!
Nah, Ive caused too much trouble, Harry said, echoing Fred.


CHAPTER NINE
Yeah, said Ron, yeah, I suppose. . . . Well, wed better get our
trunks packed, hadnt we?
It was odd how widely their possessions seemed to have scattered
themselves since they had arrived. It took them most of the afternoon
to retrieve their books and belongings from all over the house and
stow them back inside their school trunks. Harry noticed that Ron
kept moving his prefects badge around, first placing it on his bedside
table, then putting it into his jeans pocket, then taking it out and lay
ing it on his folded robes, as though to see the effect of the red on the
black. Only when Fred and George dropped in and offered to attach
it to his forehead with a Permanent Sticking Charm did he wrap it
tenderly in his maroon socks and lock it in his trunk.
Mrs. Weasley returned from Diagon Alley around six oclock, laden
with books and carrying a long package wrapped in thick brown pa
per that Ron took from her with a moan of longing.
Never mind unwrapping it now, people are arriving for dinner, I
want you all downstairs, she said, but the moment she was out of
sight Ron ripped off the paper in a frenzy and examined every inch of
his new broom, an ecstatic expression on his face.
Down in the basement Mrs. Weasley had hung a scarlet banner
over the heavily laden dinner table, which read congratulations
ron and hermione  new prefects. She looked in a better mood
than Harry had seen her all holiday.
I thought wed have a little party, not a sitdown dinner, she told
Harry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Ginny as they entered the
room. Your father and Bill are on their way, Ron, Ive sent them both
owls and theyre thrilled, she added, beaming.
Fred rolled his eyes.
Sirius, Lupin, Tonks, and Kingsley Shacklebolt were already there
and MadEye Moody stumped in shortly after Harry had got himself
a butterbeer.
Oh, Alastor, I am glad youre here, said Mrs. Weasley brightly, as


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
MadEye shrugged off his traveling cloak. Weve been wanting to ask
you for ages  could you have a look in the writing desk in the draw
ing room and tell us whats inside it? We havent wanted to open it just
in case its something really nasty.
No problem, Molly . . .
Moodys electricblue eye swiveled upward and stared fixedly
through the ceiling of the kitchen.
Drawing room . . . he growled, as the pupil contracted. Desk in
the corner? Yeah, I see it. . . . Yeah, its a boggart. . . . Want me to go
up and get rid of it, Molly?
No, no, Ill do it myself later, beamed Mrs. Weasley. You have
your drink. Were having a little bit of a celebration, actually. . . . She
gestured at the scarlet banner. Fourth prefect in the family! she said
fondly, ruffling Rons hair.
Prefect, eh? growled Moody, his normal eye on Ron and his mag
ical eye swiveling around to gaze into the side of his head. Harry had
the very uncomfortable feeling it was looking at him and moved away
toward Sirius and Lupin.
Well, congratulations, said Moody, still glaring at Ron with his
normal eye, authority figures always attract trouble, but I suppose
Dumbledore thinks you can withstand most major jinxes or he
wouldnt have appointed you. . . .
Ron looked rather startled at this view of the matter but was saved
the trouble of responding by the arrival of his father and eldest
brother. Mrs. Weasley was in such a good mood she did not even
complain that they had brought Mundungus with them too he was
wearing a long overcoat that seemed oddly lumpy in unlikely places
and declined the offer to remove it and put it with Moodys traveling
cloak.
Well, I think a toast is in order, said Mr. Weasley, when everyone
had a drink. He raised his goblet. To Ron and Hermione, the new
Gryffindor prefects!


CHAPTER NINE
Ron and Hermione beamed as everyone drank to them and then
applauded.
I was never a prefect myself, said Tonks brightly from behind
Harry as everybody moved toward the table to help themselves to
food. Her hair was tomatored and waist length today she looked like
Ginnys older sister. My Head of House said I lacked certain neces
sary qualities.
Like what? said Ginny, who was choosing a baked potato.
Like the ability to behave myself, said Tonks.
Ginny laughed Hermione looked as though she did not know
whether to smile or not and compromised by taking an extra large
gulp of butterbeer and choking on it.
What about you, Sirius? Ginny asked, thumping Hermione on
the back.
Sirius, who was right beside Harry, let out his usual barklike laugh.
No one would have made me a prefect, I spent too much time in
detention with James. Lupin was the good boy, he got the badge.
I think Dumbledore might have hoped that I would be able to ex
ercise some control over my best friends, said Lupin. I need scarcely
say that I failed dismally.
Harrys mood suddenly lifted. His father had not been a prefect ei
ther. All at once the party seemed much more enjoyable he loaded up
his plate, feeling unusually fond of everyone in the room.
Ron was rhapsodizing about his new broom to anybody who would
listen.
. . . naught to seventy in ten seconds, not bad, is it? When you
think the Comet Two Ninetys only naught to sixty and thats with a
decent tailwind according to Which Broomstick?
Hermione was talking very earnestly to Lupin about her view of elf
rights.
I mean, its the same kind of nonsense as werewolf segregation,


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
isnt it? It all stems from this horrible thing wizards have of thinking
theyre superior to other creatures. . . .
Mrs. Weasley and Bill were having their usual argument about Bills
hair.
. . . getting really out of hand, and youre so goodlooking, it
would look much better shorter, wouldnt it, Harry?
Oh  I dunno  said Harry, slightly alarmed at being asked his
opinion he slid away from them in the direction of Fred and George,
who were huddled in a corner with Mundungus.
Mundungus stopped talking when he saw Harry, but Fred winked
and beckoned Harry closer.
Its okay, he told Mundungus, we can trust Harry, hes our fi
nancial backer.
Look what Dungs gotten us, said George, holding out his hand
to Harry. It was full of what looked like shriveled black pods. A faint
rattling noise was coming from them, even though they were com
pletely stationary.
Venomous Tentacula seeds, said George. We need them for the
Skiving Snackboxes but theyre a Class C NonTradeable Substance so
weve been having a bit of trouble getting hold of them.
Ten Galleons the lot, then, Dung? said Fred.
Wiv all the trouble I went to to get em? said Mundungus, his
saggy, bloodshot eyes stretching even wider. Im sorry, lads, but Im
not taking a Knut under twenty.
Dung likes his little joke, Fred said to Harry.
Yeah, his best one so far has been six Sickles for a bag of knarl
quills, said George.
Be careful, Harry warned them quietly.
What? said Fred. Mums busy cooing over Prefect Ron, were
okay.
But Moody could have his eye on you, Harry pointed out.


CHAPTER NINE
Mundungus looked nervously over his shoulder.
Good point, that, he grunted. All right, lads, ten it is, if youll
take em quick.
Cheers, Harry! said Fred delightedly, when Mundungus had
emptied his pockets into the twins outstretched hands and scuttled
off toward the food. Wed better get these upstairs. . . .
Harry watched them go, feeling slightly uneasy. It had just oc
curred to him that Mr. and Mrs. Weasley would want to know how
Fred and George were financing their joke shop business when, as was
inevitable, they finally found out about it. Giving the twins his Tri
wizard winnings had seemed a simple thing to do at the time, but
what if it led to another family row and a Percylike estrangement?
Would Mrs. Weasley still feel that Harry was as good as her son if she
found out he had made it possible for Fred and George to start a ca
reer she thought quite unsuitable?
Standing where the twins had left him with nothing but a guilty
weight in the pit of his stomach for company, Harry caught the sound
of his own name. Kingsley Shacklebolts deep voice was audible even
over the surrounding chatter.
. . . why Dumbledore didnt make Potter a prefect? said Kingsley.
Hell have had his reasons, replied Lupin.
But it wouldve shown confidence in him. Its what Idve done,
persisted Kingsley,  specially with the Daily Prophet having a go at
him every few days. . . .
Harry did not look around he did not want Lupin or Kingsley to
know he had heard. He followed Mundungus back toward the table,
though not remotely hungry. His pleasure in the party had evaporated
as quickly as it had come he wished he were upstairs in bed.
MadEye Moody was sniffing at a chicken leg with what remained
of his nose evidently he could not detect any trace of poison, because
he then tore a strip off it with his teeth.


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
. . . the handles made of Spanish oak with antijinx varnish and
inbuilt vibration control  Ron was saying to Tonks.
Mrs. Weasley yawned widely.
Well, I think Ill sort out that boggart before I turn in. . . . Arthur,
I dont want this lot up too late, all right? Night, Harry, dear.
She left the kitchen. Harry set down his plate and wondered
whether he could follow her without attracting attention.
You all right, Potter? grunted Moody.
Yeah, fine, lied Harry.
Moody took a swig from his hip flask, his electric blue eye staring
sideways at Harry.
Come here, Ive got something that might interest you, he said.
From an inner pocket of his robes Moody pulled a very tattered old
Wizarding photograph.
Original Order of the Phoenix, growled Moody. Found it last
night when I was looking for my spare Invisibility Cloak, seeing as
Podmore hasnt had the manners to return my best one. . . . Thought
people might like to see it.
Harry took the photograph. A small crowd of people, some waving
at him, others lifting their glasses, looked back up at him.
Theres me, said Moody unnecessarily, pointing at himself. The
Moody in the picture was unmistakable, though his hair was slightly
less gray and his nose was intact. And theres Dumbledore beside me,
Dedalus Diggle on the other side . . . Thats Marlene McKinnon, she
was killed two weeks after this was taken, they got her whole family.
Thats Frank and Alice Longbottom 
Harrys stomach, already uncomfortable, clenched as he looked at
Alice Longbottom he knew her round, friendly face very well, even
though he had never met her, because she was the image of her son,
Neville.
Poor devils, growled Moody. Better dead than what happened


CHAPTER NINE
to them . . . and thats Emmeline Vance, youve met her, and that
theres Lupin, obviously . . . Benjy Fenwick, he copped it too, we only
ever found bits of him . . . shift aside there, he added, poking the pic
ture, and the little photographic people edged sideways, so that those
who were partially obscured could move to the front.
Thats Edgar Bones . . . brother of Amelia Bones, they got him and
his family too, he was a great wizard . . . Sturgis Podmore, blimey, he
looks young . . . Caradoc Dearborn, vanished six months after this, we
never found his body . . . Hagrid, of course, looks exactly the same as
ever . . . Elphias Doge, youve met him, Id forgotten he used to wear
that stupid hat . . . Gideon Prewett, it took five Death Eaters to kill
him and his brother Fabian, they fought like heroes . . . budge along,
budge along . . .
The little people in the photograph jostled among themselves, and
those hidden right at the back appeared at the forefront of the picture.
Thats Dumbledores brother, Aberforth, only time I ever met him,
strange bloke . . . Thats Dorcas Meadowes, Voldemort killed her per
sonally . . . Sirius, when he still had short hair . . . and . . . there you
go, thought that would interest you!
Harrys heart turned over. His mother and father were beaming up
at him, sitting on either side of a small, wateryeyed man Harry rec
ognized at once as Wormtail He was the one who had betrayed their
whereabouts to Voldemort and so helped bring about their deaths.
Eh? said Moody.
Harry looked up into Moodys heavily scarred and pitted face. Evi
dently Moody was under the impression he had just given Harry a bit
of a treat.
Yeah, said Harry, attempting to grin again. Er . . . listen, Ive
just remembered, I havent packed my . . .
He was spared the trouble of inventing an object he had not
packed Sirius had just said, Whats that youve got there, MadEye?
and Moody had turned toward him. Harry crossed the kitchen,


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
slipped through the door and up the stairs before anyone could call
him back.
He did not know why he had received such a shock he had seen his
parents pictures before, after all, and he had met Wormtail . . . but to
have them sprung on him like that, when he was least expecting it . . .
No one would like that, he thought angrily. . . .
And then, to see them surrounded by all those other happy faces
. . . Benjy Fenwick, who had been found in bits, and Gideon Prewett,
who had died like a hero, and the Longbottoms, who had been tor
tured into madness . . . all waving happily out of the photograph
forevermore, not knowing that they were doomed. . . . Well, Moody
might find that interesting . . . he, Harry, found it disturbing. . . .
Harry tiptoed up the stairs in the hall past the stuffed elf heads,
glad to be on his own again, but as he approached the first landing he
heard noises. Someone was sobbing in the drawing room.
Hello? Harry said.
There was no answer but the sobbing continued. He climbed the
remaining stairs two at a time, walked across the landing, and opened
the drawingroom door.
Someone was cowering against the dark wall, her wand in her
hand, her whole body shaking with sobs. Sprawled on the dusty old
carpet in a patch of moonlight, clearly dead, was Ron.
All the air seemed to vanish from Harrys lungs he felt as though he
were falling through the floor his brain turned icy cold  Ron dead,
no, it couldnt be 
But wait a moment, it couldnt be  Ron was downstairs 
Mrs. Weasley? Harry croaked.
Rrriddikulus! Mrs. Weasley sobbed, pointing her shaking wand
at Rons body.
Crack.
Rons body turned into Bills, spreadeagled on his back, his eyes
wide open and empty. Mrs. Weasley sobbed harder than ever.


CHAPTER NINE
Rriddikulus! she sobbed again.
Crack.
Mr. Weasleys body replaced Bills, his glasses askew, a trickle of
blood running down his face.
No! Mrs. Weasley moaned. No . . . riddikulus! Riddikulus!
RIDDIKULUS !
Crack. Dead twins. Crack. Dead Percy. Crack. Dead Harry . . .
Mrs. Weasley, just get out of here! shouted Harry, staring down
at his own dead body on the floor. Let someone else 
Whats going on?
Lupin had come running into the room, closely followed by Sirius,
with Moody stumping along behind them. Lupin looked from Mrs.
Weasley to the dead Harry on the floor and seemed to understand in
an instant. Pulling out his own wand he said, very firmly and clearly,
Riddikulus!
Harrys body vanished. A silvery orb hung in the air over the spot
where it had lain. Lupin waved his wand once more and the orb van
ished in a puff of smoke.
Oh  oh  oh! gulped Mrs. Weasley, and she broke into a
storm of crying, her face in her hands.
Molly, said Lupin bleakly, walking over to her, Molly, dont . . .
Next second she was sobbing her heart out on Lupins shoulder.
Molly, it was just a boggart, he said soothingly, patting her on the
head. Just a stupid boggart . . .
I see them dddead all the time! Mrs. Weasley moaned into his
shoulder. All the tttime! I dddream about it . . .
Sirius was staring at the patch of carpet where the boggart, pre
tending to be Harrys body, had lain. Moody was looking at Harry,
who avoided his gaze. He had a funny feeling Moodys magical eye
had followed him all the way out of the kitchen.
Dddont tell Arthur, Mrs. Weasley was gulping now, mopping


THE WOES OF
MRS. WEASLEY
her eyes frantically with her cuffs. I dddont want him to know. . . .
Being silly . . .
Lupin handed her a handkerchief and she blew her nose.
Harry, Im so sorry, what must you think of me? she said shakily.
Not even able to get rid of a boggart . . .
Dont be stupid, said Harry, trying to smile.
Im just ssso worried, she said, tears spilling out of her eyes
again. Half the fffamilys in the Order, itll bbbe a miracle if we all
come through this. . . . and PPPercys not talking to us. . . . What if
something dddreadful happens and we had never mmmade up?
And whats going to happen if Arthur and I get killed, whos gggoing
to look after Ron and Ginny?
Molly, thats enough, said Lupin firmly. This isnt like last time.
The Order is better prepared, weve got a head start, we know what
Voldemorts up to 
Mrs. Weasley gave a little squeak of fright at the sound of the name.
Oh, Molly, come on, its about time you got used to hearing it 
look, I cant promise no ones going to get hurt, nobody can promise
that, but were much better off than we were last time, you werent in
the Order then, you dont understand, last time we were outnumbered
twenty to one by the Death Eaters and they were picking us off one by
one. . . .
Harry thought of the photograph again, of his parents beaming
faces. He knew Moody was still watching him.
Dont worry about Percy, said Sirius abruptly. Hell come round.
Its a matter of time before Voldemort moves into the open once he
does, the whole Ministrys going to be begging us to forgive them.
And Im not sure Ill be accepting their apology, he added bitterly.
And as for whos going to look after Ron and Ginny if you and
Arthur died, said Lupin, smiling slightly, what do you think wed
do, let them starve?


CHAPTER NINE
Mrs. Weasley smiled tremulously.
Being silly, she muttered again, mopping her eyes.
But Harry, closing his bedroom door behind him some ten minutes
later, could not think Mrs. Weasley silly. He could still see his parents
beaming up at him from the tattered old photograph, unaware that
their lives, like so many of those around them, were drawing to a close.
The image of the boggart posing as the corpse of each member of Mrs.
Weasleys family in turn kept flashing before his eyes.
Without warning, the scar on his forehead seared with pain again
and his stomach churned horribly.
Cut it out, he said firmly, rubbing the scar as the pain receded
again.
First sign of madness, talking to your own head, said a sly voice
from the empty picture on the wall.
Harry ignored it. He felt older than he had ever felt in his life, and
it seemed extraordinary to him that barely an hour ago he had been
worried about a joke shop and who had gotten a prefects badge.


C H A P T E R T E N
LUNA LOVEGOOD
H
arry had a troubled nights sleep. His parents wove in and out
of his dreams, never speaking Mrs. Weasley sobbed over
Kreachers dead body watched by Ron and Hermione, who were wear
ing crowns, and yet again Harry found himself walking down a corri
dor ending in a locked door. He awoke abruptly with his scar
prickling to find Ron already dressed and talking to him.
. . . better hurry up, Mums going ballistic, she says were going to
miss the train. . . .
There was a lot of commotion in the house. From what he heard as
he dressed at top speed, Harry gathered that Fred and George had be
witched their trunks to fly downstairs to save the bother of carrying
them, with the result that they had hurtled straight into Ginny and
knocked her down two flights of stairs into the hall Mrs. Black and
Mrs. Weasley were both screaming at the top of their voices.
 COULD HAVE DONE HER A SERIOUS INJURY, YOU
IDIOTS 
 FILTHY HALFBREEDS, BESMIRCHING THE HOUSE
OF MY FATHERS 


CHAPTER TEN
Hermione came hurrying into the room looking flustered just as
Harry was putting on his trainers Hedwig was swaying on her shoul
der, and she was carrying a squirming Crookshanks in her arms.
Mum and Dad just sent Hedwig back  the owl fluttered oblig
ingly over and perched on top of her cage  are you ready yet?
Nearly  Ginny all right? Harry asked, shoving on his glasses.
Mrs. Weasleys patched her up, said Hermione. But now Mad
Eyes complaining that we cant leave unless Sturgis Podmores here,
otherwise the guard will be one short.
Guard? said Harry. We have to go to Kings Cross with a guard?
You have to go to Kings Cross with a guard, Hermione corrected
him.
Why? said Harry irritably. I thought Voldemort was supposed
to be lying low, or are you telling me hes going to jump out from
behind a dustbin to try and do me in?
I dont know, its just what MadEye says, said Hermione
distractedly, looking at her watch. But if we dont leave soon were
definitely going to miss the train. . . .
WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE! Mrs.
Weasley bellowed and Hermione jumped as though scalded and
hurried out of the room. Harry seized Hedwig, stuffed her unceremo
niously into her cage, and set off downstairs after Hermione, dragging
his trunk.
Mrs. Blacks portrait was howling with rage but nobody was both
ering to close the curtains over her all the noise in the hall was bound
to rouse her again anyway.
Harry, youre to come with me and Tonks, shouted Mrs. Weasley
over the repeated screeches of MUDBLOODS ! SCUM ! CREATURES
OF DIRT ! Leave your trunk and your owl, Alastors going to deal with
the luggage. . . . Oh, for heavens sake, Sirius, Dumbledore said no!
A bearlike black dog had appeared at Harrys side as Harry clam


LUNA LOVEGOOD
bered over the various trunks cluttering the hall to get to Mrs.
Weasley.
Oh honestly . . . said Mrs. Weasley despairingly, well, on your
own head be it!
She wrenched open the front door and stepped out into the weak
September sunlight. Harry and the dog followed her. The door
slammed behind them and Mrs. Blacks screeches were cut off
instantly.
Wheres Tonks? Harry said, looking around as they went down
the stone steps of number twelve, which vanished the moment they
reached the pavement.
Shes waiting for us just up here, said Mrs. Weasley stiffly, avert
ing her eyes from the lolloping black dog beside Harry.
An old woman greeted them on the corner. She had tightly curled
gray hair and wore a purple hat shaped like a porkpie.
Wotcher, Harry, she said, winking. Better hurry up, hadnt we,
Molly? she added, checking her watch.
I know, I know, moaned Mrs. Weasley, lengthening her stride,
but MadEye wanted to wait for Sturgis. . . . If only Arthur could
have got us cars from the Ministry again . . . but Fudge wouldnt let
him borrow so much as an empty ink bottle these days. . . . How
Muggles can stand traveling without magic . . .
But the great black dog gave a joyful bark and gamboled around
them, snapping at pigeons, and chasing its own tail. Harry couldnt
help laughing. Sirius had been trapped inside for a very long time.
Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips in an almost Aunt Petuniaish way.
It took them twenty minutes to reach Kings Cross by foot and
nothing more eventful happened during that time than Sirius scaring
a couple of cats for Harrys entertainment. Once inside the station
they lingered casually beside the barrier between platforms nine and
ten until the coast was clear, then each of them leaned against it in


CHAPTER TEN
turn and fell easily through onto platform nine and three quarters,
where the Hogwarts Express stood belching sooty steam over a plat
form packed with departing students and their families. Harry inhaled
the familiar smell and felt his spirits soar. . . . He was really going
back. . . .
I hope the others make it in time, said Mrs. Weasley anxiously,
staring behind her at the wroughtiron arch spanning the platform,
through which new arrivals would come.
Nice dog, Harry! called a tall boy with dreadlocks.
Thanks, Lee, said Harry, grinning, as Sirius wagged his tail
frantically.
Oh good, said Mrs. Weasley, sounding relieved, heres Alastor
with the luggage, look . . .
A porters cap pulled low over his mismatched eyes, Moody came
limping through the archway pushing a cart full of their trunks.
All okay, he muttered to Mrs. Weasley and Tonks. Dont think
we were followed. . . .
Seconds later, Mr. Weasley emerged onto the platform with Ron
and Hermione. They had almost unloaded Moodys luggage cart
when Fred, George, and Ginny turned up with Lupin.
No trouble? growled Moody.
Nothing, said Lupin.
Ill still be reporting Sturgis to Dumbledore, said Moody. Thats
the second time hes not turned up in a week. Getting as unreliable as
Mundungus.
Well, look after yourselves, said Lupin, shaking hands all round.
He reached Harry last and gave him a clap on the shoulder. You too,
Harry. Be careful.
Yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled, said Moody,
shaking Harrys hand too. And dont forget, all of you  careful
what you put in writing. If in doubt, dont put it in a letter at all.


LUNA LOVEGOOD
Its been great meeting all of you, said Tonks, hugging Hermione
and Ginny. Well see you soon, I expect.
A warning whistle sounded the students still on the platform
started hurrying onto the train.
Quick, quick, said Mrs. Weasley distractedly, hugging them at ran
dom and catching Harry twice. Write. . . . Be good. . . . If youve for
gotten anything well send it on. . . . Onto the train, now, hurry. . . .
For one brief moment, the great black dog reared onto its hind legs
and placed its front paws on Harrys shoulders, but Mrs. Weasley
shoved Harry away toward the train door hissing, For heavens sake
act more like a dog, Sirius!
See you! Harry called out of the open window as the train began
to move, while Ron, Hermione, and Ginny waved beside him. The
figures of Tonks, Lupin, Moody, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley shrank
rapidly but the black dog was bounding alongside the window, wag
ging its tail blurred people on the platform were laughing to see it
chasing the train, and then they turned the corner, and Sirius was
gone.
He shouldnt have come with us, said Hermione in a worried
voice.
Oh lighten up, said Ron, he hasnt seen daylight for months,
poor bloke.
Well, said Fred, clapping his hands together, cant stand around
chatting all day, weve got business to discuss with Lee. See you later,
and he and George disappeared down the corridor to the right.
The train was gathering still more speed, so that the houses outside
the window flashed past and they swayed where they stood.
Shall we go and find a compartment, then? Harry asked Ron and
Hermione.
Ron and Hermione exchanged looks.
Er, said Ron.


CHAPTER TEN
Were  well  Ron and I are supposed to go into the prefect
carriage, Hermione said awkwardly.
Ron wasnt looking at Harry he seemed to have become intensely
interested in the fingernails on his left hand.
Oh, said Harry. Right. Fine.
I dont think well have to stay there all journey, said Hermione
quickly. Our letters said we just get instructions from the Head Boy
and Girl and then patrol the corridors from time to time.
Fine, said Harry again. Well, II might see you later, then.
Yeah, definitely, said Ron, casting a shifty, anxious look at Harry.
Its a pain having to go down there, Id rather  but we have to  I
mean, Im not enjoying it, Im not Percy, he finished defiantly.
I know youre not, said Harry and he grinned. But as Hermione
and Ron dragged their trunks, Crookshanks, and a caged Pigwidgeon
off toward the engine end of the train, Harry felt an odd sense of loss.
He had never traveled on the Hogwarts Express without Ron.
Come on, Ginny told him, if we get a move on well be able to
save them places.
Right, said Harry, picking up Hedwigs cage in one hand and the
handle of his trunk in the other. They struggled off down the corridor,
peering through the glasspaneled doors into the compartments they
passed, which were already full. Harry could not help noticing that a
lot of people stared back at him with great interest and that several of
them nudged their neighbors and pointed him out. After he had met
this behavior in five consecutive carriages he remembered that the
Daily Prophet had been telling its readers all summer what a lying
showoff he was. He wondered bleakly whether the people now star
ing and whispering believed the stories.
In the very last carriage they met Neville Longbottom, Harrys fel
low fifthyear Gryffindor, his round face shining with the effort of
pulling his trunk along and maintaining a onehanded grip on his
struggling toad, Trevor.


LUNA LOVEGOOD
Hi, Harry, he panted. Hi, Ginny. . . . Everywheres full. . . . I
cant find a seat. . . .
What are you talking about? said Ginny, who had squeezed past
Neville to peer into the compartment behind him. Theres room in
this one, theres only Loony Lovegood in here 
Neville mumbled something about not wanting to disturb anyone.
Dont be silly, said Ginny, laughing, shes all right.
She slid the door open and pulled her trunk inside it. Harry and
Neville followed.
Hi, Luna, said Ginny. Is it okay if we take these seats?
The girl beside the window looked up. She had straggly, waist
length, dirtyblond hair, very pale eyebrows, and protuberant eyes
that gave her a permanently surprised look. Harry knew at once why
Neville had chosen to pass this compartment by. The girl gave off an
aura of distinct dottiness. Perhaps it was the fact that she had stuck her
wand behind her left ear for safekeeping, or that she had chosen to
wear a necklace of butterbeer caps, or that she was reading a magazine
upside down. Her eyes ranged over Neville and came to rest on Harry.
She nodded.
Thanks, said Ginny, smiling at her.
Harry and Neville stowed the three trunks and Hedwigs cage in
the luggage rack and sat down. The girl called Luna watched them
over her upsidedown magazine, which was called The Quibbler. She
did not seem to need to blink as much as normal humans. She stared
and stared at Harry, who had taken the seat opposite her and now
wished he had not.
Had a good summer, Luna? Ginny asked.
Yes, said Luna dreamily, without taking her eyes off Harry. Yes,
it was quite enjoyable, you know. Youre Harry Potter, she added.
I know I am, said Harry.
Neville chuckled. Luna turned her pale eyes upon him instead.
And I dont know who you are.


CHAPTER TEN
Im nobody, said Neville hurriedly.
No youre not, said Ginny sharply. Neville Longbottom 
Luna Lovegood. Lunas in my year, but in Ravenclaw.
Wit beyond measure is mans greatest treasure, said Luna in a
singsong voice.
She raised her upsidedown magazine high enough to hide her face
and fell silent. Harry and Neville looked at each other with their eye
brows raised. Ginny suppressed a giggle.
The train rattled onward, speeding them out into open country. It
was an odd, unsettled sort of day one moment the carriage was full of
sunlight and the next they were passing beneath ominously gray
clouds.
Guess what I got for my birthday? said Neville.
Another Remembrall? said Harry, remembering the marblelike
device Nevilles grandmother had sent him in an effort to improve his
abysmal memory.
No, said Neville, I could do with one, though, I lost the old one
ages ago. . . . No, look at this. . . .
He dug the hand that was not keeping a firm grip on Trevor into
his schoolbag and after a little bit of rummaging pulled out what ap
peared to be a small gray cactus in a pot, except that it was covered
with what looked like boils rather than spines.
Mimbulus mimbletonia, he said proudly.
Harry stared at the thing. It was pulsating slightly, giving it the
rather sinister look of some diseased internal organ.
Its really, really rare, said Neville, beaming. I dont know if
theres one in the greenhouse at Hogwarts, even. I cant wait to show
it to Professor Sprout. My greatuncle Algie got it for me in Assyria.
Im going to see if I can breed from it.
Harry knew that Nevilles favorite subject was Herbology, but for
the life of him he could not see what he would want with this stunted
little plant.


LUNA LOVEGOOD
Does it  er  do anything? he asked.
Loads of stuff! said Neville proudly. Its got an amazing defen
sive mechanism  hold Trevor for me. . . .
He dumped the toad into Harrys lap and took a quill from his
schoolbag. Luna Lovegoods popping eyes appeared over the top of
her upsidedown magazine again, watching what Neville was doing.
Neville held the Mimbulus mimbletonia up to his eyes, his tongue be
tween his teeth, chose his spot, and gave the plant a sharp prod with
the tip of his quill.
Liquid squirted from every boil on the plant, thick, stinking, dark
green jets of it they hit the ceiling, the windows, and spattered Luna
Lovegoods magazine. Ginny, who had flung her arms up in front of
her face just in time, merely looked as though she was wearing a slimy
green hat, but Harry, whose hands had been busy preventing the es
cape of Trevor, received a face full. It smelled like rancid manure.
Neville, whose face and torso were also drenched, shook his head to
get the worst out of his eyes.
Ssorry, he gasped. I havent tried that before. . . . Didnt realize
it would be quite so . . . Dont worry, though, Stinksaps not poiso
nous, he added nervously, as Harry spat a mouthful onto the floor.
At that precise moment the door of their compartment slid open.
Oh . . . hello, Harry, said a nervous voice. Um . . . bad time?
Harry wiped the lenses of his glasses with his Trevorfree hand. A
very pretty girl with long, shiny black hair was standing in the doorway
smiling at him Cho Chang, the Seeker on the Ravenclaw Quidditch
team.
Oh . . . hi, said Harry blankly.
Um . . . said Cho. Well . . . just thought Id say hello . . . bye
then.
She closed the door again, rather pink in the face, and departed.
Harry slumped back in his seat and groaned. He would have liked
Cho to discover him sitting with a group of very cool people laughing


CHAPTER TEN
their heads off at a joke he had just told he would not have chosen to
be sitting with Neville and Loony Lovegood, clutching a toad and
dripping in Stinksap.
Never mind, said Ginny bracingly. Look, we can get rid of all
this easily. She pulled out her wand. Scourgify!
The Stinksap vanished.
Sorry, said Neville again, in a small voice.
Ron and Hermione did not turn up for nearly an hour, by which
time the food trolley had already gone by. Harry, Ginny, and Neville
had finished their Pumpkin Pasties and were busy swapping Choco
late Frog cards when the compartment door slid open and they
walked in, accompanied by Crookshanks and a shrilly hooting Pig
widgeon in his cage.
Im starving, said Ron, stowing Pigwidgeon next to Hedwig,
grabbing a Chocolate Frog from Harry and throwing himself into the
seat next to him. He ripped open the wrapper, bit off the Frogs head,
and leaned back with his eyes closed as though he had had a very ex
hausting morning.
Well, there are two fifthyear prefects from each House, said
Hermione, looking thoroughly disgruntled as she took her seat. Boy
and girl from each.
And guess whos a Slytherin prefect? said Ron, still with his eyes
closed.
Malfoy, replied Harry at once, his worst fear confirmed.
 Course, said Ron bitterly, stuffing the rest of the Frog into his
mouth and taking another.
And that complete cow Pansy Parkinson, said Hermione vicious
ly. How she got to be a prefect when shes thicker than a concussed
troll . . .
Whos Hufflepuff? Harry asked.
Ernie Macmillan and Hannah Abbott, said Ron thickly.


LUNA LOVEGOOD
And Anthony Goldstein and Padma Patil for Ravenclaw, said
Hermione.
You went to the Yule Ball with Padma Patil, said a vague voice.
Everyone turned to look at Luna Lovegood, who was gazing un
blinkingly at Ron over the top of The Quibbler. He swallowed his
mouthful of Frog.
Yeah, I know I did, he said, looking mildly surprised.
She didnt enjoy it very much, Luna informed him. She doesnt
think you treated her very well, because you wouldnt dance with her.
I dont think Id have minded, she added thoughtfully, I dont like
dancing very much.
She retreated behind The Quibbler again. Ron stared at the cover
with his mouth hanging open for a few seconds, then looked around
at Ginny for some kind of explanation, but Ginny had stuffed her
knuckles in her mouth to stop herself giggling. Ron shook his head,
bemused, then checked his watch.
Were supposed to patrol the corridors every so often, he told
Harry and Neville, and we can give out punishments if people are
misbehaving. I cant wait to get Crabbe and Goyle for something. . . .
Youre not supposed to abuse your position, Ron! said Hermione
sharply.
Yeah, right, because Malfoy wont abuse it at all, said Ron
sarcastically.
So youre going to descend to his level?
No, Im just going to make sure I get his mates before he gets
mine.
For heavens sake, Ron 
Ill make Goyle do lines, itll kill him, he hates writing, said Ron
happily. He lowered his voice to Goyles low grunt and, screwing up his
face in a look of pained concentration, mimed writing in midair. I . . .
must . . . not . . . look . . . like . . . a . . . baboons . . . backside. . . .


CHAPTER TEN
Everyone laughed, but nobody laughed harder than Luna Love
good. She let out a scream of mirth that caused Hedwig to wake up
and flap her wings indignantly and Crookshanks to leap up into the
luggage rack, hissing. She laughed so hard that her magazine slipped
out of her grasp, slid down her legs, and onto the floor.
That was funny!
Her prominent eyes swam with tears as she gasped for breath, staring
at Ron. Utterly nonplussed, he looked around at the others, who were
now laughing at the expression on Rons face and at the ludicrously
prolonged laughter of Luna Lovegood, who was rocking backward and
forward, clutching her sides.
Are you taking the mickey? said Ron, frowning at her.
Baboons . . . backside! she choked, holding her ribs.
Everyone else was watching Luna laughing, but Harry, glancing at
the magazine on the floor, noticed something that made him dive for
it. Upside down it had been hard to tell what the picture on the front
was, but Harry now realized it was a fairly bad cartoon of Cornelius
Fudge Harry only recognized him because of the limegreen bowler
hat. One of Fudges hands was clenched around a bag of gold the
other hand was throttling a goblin. The cartoon was captioned How
Far Will Fudge Go to Gain Gringotts?
Beneath this were listed the titles of other articles inside the magazine.
CORRUPTION IN THE QUIDDITCH LEAGUE
How the Tornados Are Taking Control
SECRETS OF THE ANCIENT RUNES REVEALED
SIRIUS BLACK Villain or Victim?
Can I have a look at this? Harry asked Luna eagerly.
She nodded, still gazing at Ron, breathless with laughter.


LUNA LOVEGOOD
Harry opened the magazine and scanned the index until this mo
ment he had completely forgotten the magazine Kingsley had handed
Mr. Weasley to give to Sirius, but it must have been this edition of The
Quibbler. He found the page and turned excitedly to the article.
This too was illustrated by a rather bad cartoon in fact, Harry
would not have known it was supposed to be Sirius if it hadnt been
captioned. Sirius was standing on a pile of human bones with his
wand out. The headline on the article read
SIRIUS  Black As Hes Painted?
Notorious Mass Murderer OR Innocent Singing Sensation?
Harry had to read this sentence several times before he was con
vinced that he had not misunderstood it. Since when had Sirius been
a singing sensation?
For fourteen years Sirius Black has been believed
guilty of the mass murder of twelve innocent Mug
gles and one wizard. Blacks audacious escape from
Azkaban two years ago has led to the widest man
hunt ever conducted by the Ministry of Magic. None
of us has ever questioned that he deserves to be re
captured and handed back to the dementors.
BUT DOES HE?
Startling new evidence has recently come to light
that Sirius Black may not have committed the crimes
for which he was sent to Azkaban. In fact, says Doris
Purkiss, of  Acanthia Way, Little Norton, Black may
not even have been present at the killings.
What people dont realize is that Sirius Black is
a false name, says Mrs. Purkiss. The man people


CHAPTER TEN
believe to be Sirius Black is actually Stubby Board
man, lead singer of the popular singing group The
Hobgoblins, who retired from public life after being
struck in the ear by a turnip at a concert in Little Nor
ton Church Hall nearly fifteen years ago. I recognized
him the moment I saw his picture in the paper. Now,
Stubby couldnt possibly have committed those
crimes, because on the day in question he happened
to be enjoying a romantic candlelit dinner with me. I
have written to the Minister of Magic and am expect
ing him to give Stubby, alias Sirius, a full pardon any
day now.
Harry finished reading and stared at the page in disbelief. Perhaps
it was a joke, he thought, perhaps the magazine often printed spoof
items. He flicked back a few pages and found the piece on Fudge.
Cornelius Fudge, the Minister of Magic, denied that
he had any plans to take over the running of the Wiz
arding Bank, Gringotts, when he was elected Minister
of Magic five years ago. Fudge has always insisted
that he wants nothing more than to cooperate
peacefully with the guardians of our gold.
BUT DOES HE?
Sources close to the Minister have recently dis
closed that Fudges dearest ambition is to seize
control of the goblin gold supplies and that he will
not hesitate to use force if need be.
It wouldnt be the first time, either, said a
Ministry insider. Cornelius GoblinCrusher Fudge,
thats what his friends call him, if you could hear him


LUNA LOVEGOOD
when he thinks no ones listening, oh, hes always
talking about the goblins hes had done in hes had
them drowned, hes had them dropped off buildings,
hes had them poisoned, hes had them cooked in
pies. . . .
Harry did not read any further. Fudge might have many faults but
Harry found it extremely hard to imagine him ordering goblins to be
cooked in pies. He flicked through the rest of the magazine. Pausing
every few pages he read an accusation that the Tutshill Tornados were
winning the Quidditch League by a combination of blackmail, illegal
broomtampering, and torture an interview with a wizard who
claimed to have flown to the moon on a Cleansweep Six and brought
back a bag of moon frogs to prove it and an article on ancient runes,
which at least explained why Luna had been reading The Quibbler up
side down. According to the magazine, if you turned the runes on
their heads they revealed a spell to make your enemys ears turn into
kumquats. In fact, compared to the rest of the articles in The Quibbler,
the suggestion that Sirius might really be the lead singer of The Hob
goblins was quite sensible.
Anything good in there? asked Ron as Harry closed the magazine.
Of course not, said Hermione scathingly, before Harry could an
swer, The Quibblers rubbish, everyone knows that.
Excuse me, said Luna her voice had suddenly lost its dreamy
quality. My fathers the editor.
I  oh, said Hermione, looking embarrassed. Well . . . its got
some interesting . . . I mean, its quite . . .
Ill have it back, thank you, said Luna coldly, and leaning forward
she snatched it out of Harrys hands. Rifling through it to page fifty
seven, she turned it resolutely upside down again and disappeared
behind it, just as the compartment door opened for the third time.


CHAPTER TEN
Harry looked around he had expected this, but that did not make the
sight of Draco Malfoy smirking at him from between his cronies
Crabbe and Goyle any more enjoyable.
What? he said aggressively, before Malfoy could open his mouth.
Manners, Potter, or Ill have to give you a detention, drawled
Malfoy, whose sleek blond hair and pointed chin were just like his
fathers. You see, I, unlike you, have been made a prefect, which
means that I, unlike you, have the power to hand out punishments.
Yeah, said Harry, but you, unlike me, are a git, so get out and
leave us alone.
Ron, Hermione, Ginny, and Neville laughed. Malfoys lip curled.
Tell me, how does it feel being secondbest to Weasley, Potter? he
asked.
Shut up, Malfoy, said Hermione sharply.
I seem to have touched a nerve, said Malfoy, smirking. Well, just
watch yourself, Potter, because Ill be dogging your footsteps in case
you step out of line.
Get out! said Hermione, standing up.
Sniggering, Malfoy gave Harry a last malicious look and departed,
Crabbe and Goyle lumbering in his wake. Hermione slammed the
compartment door behind them and turned to look at Harry, who
knew at once that she, like him, had registered what Malfoy had said
and been just as unnerved by it.
Chuck us another Frog, said Ron, who had clearly noticed
nothing.
Harry could not talk freely in front of Neville and Luna. He ex
changed another nervous look with Hermione and then stared out of
the window.
He had thought Sirius coming with him to the station was a bit of
a laugh, but suddenly it seemed reckless, if not downright dangerous.
. . . Hermione had been right. . . . Sirius should not have come. What
if Mr. Malfoy had noticed the black dog and told Draco, what if he


LUNA LOVEGOOD
had deduced that the Weasleys, Lupin, Tonks, and Moody knew
where Sirius was hiding? Or had Malfoys use of the word dogging
been a coincidence?
The weather remained undecided as they traveled farther and far
ther north. Rain spattered the windows in a halfhearted way, then the
sun put in a feeble appearance before clouds drifted over it once more.
When darkness fell and lamps came on inside the carriages, Luna
rolled up The Quibbler, put it carefully away in her bag, and took to
staring at everyone in the compartment instead.
Harry was sitting with his forehead pressed against the train win
dow, trying to get a first distant glimpse of Hogwarts, but it was a
moonless night and the rainstreaked window was grimy.
Wed better change, said Hermione at last. She and Ron pinned
their prefect badges carefully to their chests. Harry saw Ron checking
how it looked in the black window.
At last the train began to slow down and they heard the usual racket
up and down it as everybody scrambled to get their luggage and pets
assembled, ready for departure. Ron and Hermione were supposed to
supervise all this they disappeared from the carriage again, leaving
Harry and the others to look after Crookshanks and Pigwidgeon.
Ill carry that owl, if you like, said Luna to Harry, reaching out
for Pigwidgeon as Neville stowed Trevor carefully in an inside pocket.
Oh  er  thanks, said Harry, handing her the cage and hoist
ing Hedwigs more securely into his arms.
They shuffled out of the compartment feeling the first sting of the
night air on their faces as they joined the crowd in the corridor. Slowly
they moved toward the doors. Harry could smell the pine trees that
lined the path down to the lake. He stepped down onto the platform
and looked around, listening for the familiar call of Firs years over
here . . . firs years . . .
But it did not come. Instead a quite different voice, a brisk female


CHAPTER TEN
one, was calling, First years line up over here, please! All first years to
me!
A lantern came swinging toward Harry and by its light he saw the
prominent chin and severe haircut of Professor GrubblyPlank, the
witch who had taken over Hagrids Care of Magical Creatures lessons
for a while the previous year.
Wheres Hagrid? he said out loud.
I dont know, said Ginny, but wed better get out of the way,
were blocking the door.
Oh yeah . . .
Harry and Ginny became separated as they moved off along the
platform and out through the station. Jostled by the crowd, Harry
squinted through the darkness for a glimpse of Hagrid he had to be
here, Harry had been relying on it  seeing Hagrid again had been
one of the things to which he had been looking forward most. But
there was no sign of him at all.
He cant have left, Harry told himself as he shuffled slowly through
a narrow doorway onto the road outside with the rest of the crowd.
Hes just got a cold or something. . . .
He looked around for Ron or Hermione, wanting to know what
they thought about the reappearance of Professor GrubblyPlank, but
neither of them was anywhere near him, so he allowed himself to be
shunted forward onto the dark rainwashed road outside Hogsmeade
station.
Here stood the hundred or so horseless stagecoaches that always
took the students above first year up to the castle. Harry glanced
quickly at them, turned away to keep a lookout for Ron and
Hermione, then did a double take.
The coaches were no longer horseless. There were creatures stand
ing between the carriage shafts if he had had to give them a name, he
supposed he would have called them horses, though there was some
thing reptilian about them, too. They were completely fleshless, their


LUNA LOVEGOOD
black coats clinging to their skeletons, of which every bone was visi
ble. Their heads were dragonish, and their pupilless eyes white and
staring. Wings sprouted from each wither  vast, black leathery
wings that looked as though they ought to belong to giant bats.
Standing still and quiet in the gloom, the creatures looked eerie and
sinister. Harry could not understand why the coaches were being
pulled by these horrible horses when they were quite capable of
moving along by themselves.
Wheres Pig? said Rons voice, right behind Harry.
That Luna girl was carrying him, said Harry, turning quickly, ea
ger to consult Ron about Hagrid. Where dyou reckon 
 Hagrid is? I dunno, said Ron, sounding worried. Hed better
be okay. . . .
A short distance away, Draco Malfoy, followed by a small gang of
cronies including Crabbe, Goyle, and Pansy Parkinson, was pushing
some timidlooking second years out of the way so that they could get
a coach to themselves. Seconds later Hermione emerged panting from
the crowd.
Malfoy was being absolutely foul to a first year back there, I swear
Im going to report him, hes only had his badge three minutes and hes
using it to bully people worse than ever. . . . Wheres Crookshanks?
Ginnys got him, said Harry. There she is. . . .
Ginny had just emerged from the crowd, clutching a squirming
Crookshanks.
Thanks, said Hermione, relieving Ginny of the cat. Come on,
lets get a carriage together before they all fill up. . . .
I havent got Pig yet! Ron said, but Hermione was already head
ing off toward the nearest unoccupied coach. Harry remained behind
with Ron.
What are those things, dyou reckon? he asked Ron, nodding at
the horrible horses as the other students surged past them.
What things?


CHAPTER TEN
Those horse 
Luna appeared holding Pigwidgeons cage in her arms the tiny owl
was twittering excitedly as usual.
Here you are, she said. Hes a sweet little owl, isnt he?
Er . . . yeah . . . Hes all right, said Ron gruffly. Well, come on
then, lets get in. . . . what were you saying, Harry?
I was saying, what are those horse things? Harry said, as he, Ron,
and Luna made for the carriage in which Hermione and Ginny were
already sitting.
What horse things?
The horse things pulling the carriages! said Harry impatiently
they were, after all, about three feet from the nearest one it was
watching them with empty white eyes. Ron, however, gave Harry a
perplexed look.
What are you talking about?
Im talking about  look!
Harry grabbed Rons arm and wheeled him about so that he was
facetoface with the winged horse. Ron stared straight at it for a sec
ond, then looked back at Harry.
What am I supposed to be looking at?
At the  there, between the shafts! Harnessed to the coach! Its
right there in front 
But as Ron continued to look bemused, a strange thought occurred
to Harry.
Cant . . . cant you see them?
See what?
Cant you see whats pulling the carriages?
Ron looked seriously alarmed now.
Are you feeling all right, Harry?
I . . . yeah . . .
Harry felt utterly bewildered. The horse was there in front of him,
gleaming solidly in the dim light issuing from the station windows


LUNA LOVEGOOD
behind them, vapor rising from its nostrils in the chilly night air. Yet
unless Ron was faking  and it was a very feeble joke if he was 
Ron could not see it at all.
Shall we get in, then? said Ron uncertainly, looking at Harry as
though worried about him.
Yeah, said Harry. Yeah, go on . . .
Its all right, said a dreamy voice from beside Harry as Ron van
ished into the coachs dark interior. Youre not going mad or anything.
I can see them too.
Can you? said Harry desperately, turning to Luna. He could see
the batwinged horses reflected in her wide, silvery eyes.
Oh yes, said Luna, Ive been able to see them ever since my first
day here. Theyve always pulled the carriages. Dont worry. Youre just
as sane as I am.
Smiling faintly, she climbed into the musty interior of the carriage
after Ron. Not altogether reassured, Harry followed her.


C H A P T E R E L E V E N
THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
H
arry did not want to tell the others that he and Luna were
having the same hallucination, if that was what it was, so he
said nothing about the horses as he sat down inside the carriage and
slammed the door behind him. Nevertheless, he could not help
watching the silhouettes of the horses moving beyond the window.
Did everyone see that GrubblyPlank woman? asked Ginny.
Whats she doing back here? Hagrid cant have left, can he?
Ill be quite glad if he has, said Luna. He isnt a very good
teacher, is he?
Yes, he is! said Harry, Ron, and Ginny angrily.
Harry glared at Hermione she cleared her throat and quickly said,
Erm . . . yes . . . hes very good.
Well, we think hes a bit of a joke in Ravenclaw, said Luna,
unfazed.
Youve got a rubbish sense of humor then, Ron snapped, as the
wheels below them creaked into motion.
Luna did not seem perturbed by Rons rudeness on the contrary,


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
she simply watched him for a while as though he were a mildly inter
esting television program.
Rattling and swaying, the carriages moved in convoy up the road.
When they passed between the tall stone pillars topped with winged
boars on either side of the gates to the school grounds, Harry leaned
forward to try and see whether there were any lights on in Hagrids
cabin by the Forbidden Forest, but the grounds were in complete
darkness. Hogwarts Castle, however, loomed ever closer a towering
mass of turrets, jetblack against the dark sky, here and there a window
blazing fiery bright above them.
The carriages jingled to a halt near the stone steps leading up to the
oak front doors and Harry got out of the carriage first. He turned
again to look for lit windows down by the forest, but there was defi
nitely no sign of life within Hagrids cabin. Unwillingly, because he
had half hoped they would have vanished, he turned his eyes instead
upon the strange, skeletal creatures standing quietly in the chill night
air, their blank white eyes gleaming.
Harry had once before had the experience of seeing something that
Ron could not, but that had been a reflection in a mirror, something
much more insubstantial than a hundred very solidlooking beasts
strong enough to pull a fleet of carriages. If Luna was to be believed,
the beasts had always been there but invisible why, then, could Harry
suddenly see them, and why could Ron not?
Are you coming or what? said Ron beside him.
Oh . . . yeah, said Harry quickly, and they joined the crowd hur
rying up the stone steps into the castle.
The entrance hall was ablaze with torches and echoing with foot
steps as the students crossed the flagged stone floor for the double
doors to the right, leading to the Great Hall and the startofterm
feast.
The four long House tables in the Great Hall were filling up under


CHAPTER ELEVEN
the starless black ceiling, which was just like the sky they could
glimpse through the high windows. Candles floated in midair all
along the tables, illuminating the silvery ghosts who were dotted
about the Hall and the faces of the students talking eagerly to one an
other, exchanging summer news, shouting greetings at friends from
other Houses, eyeing one anothers new haircuts and robes. Again
Harry noticed people putting their heads together to whisper as he
passed he gritted his teeth and tried to act as though he neither no
ticed nor cared.
Luna drifted away from them at the Ravenclaw table. The moment
they reached Gryffindors, Ginny was hailed by some fellow fourth
years and left to sit with them Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville
found seats together about halfway down the table between Nearly
Headless Nick, the Gryffindor House ghost, and Parvati Patil and
Lavender Brown, the last two of whom gave Harry airy, overly
friendly greetings that made him quite sure they had stopped talking
about him a split second before. He had more important things to
worry about, however He was looking over the students heads to the
staff table that ran along the top wall of the Hall.
Hes not there.
Ron and Hermione scanned the staff table too, though there was
no real need Hagrids size made him instantly obvious in any lineup.
He cant have left, said Ron, sounding slightly anxious.
Of course he hasnt, said Harry firmly.
You dont think hes . . . hurt, or anything, do you? said Hermione
uneasily.
No, said Harry at once.
But where is he, then?
There was a pause, then Harry said very quietly, so that Neville,
Parvati, and Lavender could not hear, Maybe hes not back yet. You
know  from his mission  the thing he was doing over the sum
mer for Dumbledore.


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
Yeah . . . yeah, thatll be it, said Ron, sounding reassured, but
Hermione bit her lip, looking up and down the staff table as though
hoping for some conclusive explanation of Hagrids absence.
Whos that? she said sharply, pointing toward the middle of the
staff table.
Harrys eyes followed hers. They lit first upon Professor Dumble
dore, sitting in his highbacked golden chair at the center of the long
staff table, wearing deeppurple robes scattered with silvery stars and
a matching hat. Dumbledores head was inclined toward the woman
sitting next to him, who was talking into his ear. She looked, Harry
thought, like somebodys maiden aunt squat, with short, curly,
mousebrown hair in which she had placed a horrible pink Alice band
that matched the fluffy pink cardigan she wore over her robes. Then
she turned her face slightly to take a sip from her goblet and he saw,
with a shock of recognition, a pallid, toadlike face and a pair of promi
nent, pouchy eyes.
Its that Umbridge woman!
Who? said Hermione.
She was at my hearing, she works for Fudge!
Nice cardigan, said Ron, smirking.
She works for Fudge? Hermione repeated, frowning. What on
earths she doing here, then?
Dunno . . .
Hermione scanned the staff table, her eyes narrowed.
No, she muttered, no, surely not . . .
Harry did not understand what she was talking about but did not
ask his attention had just been caught by Professor GrubblyPlank
who had just appeared behind the staff table she worked her way
along to the very end and took the seat that ought to have been Ha
grids. That meant that the first years must have crossed the lake and
reached the castle, and sure enough, a few seconds later, the doors
from the entrance hall opened. A long line of scaredlooking first years


CHAPTER ELEVEN
entered, led by Professor McGonagall, who was carrying a stool on
which sat an ancient wizards hat, heavily patched and darned with a
wide rip near the frayed brim.
The buzz of talk in the Great Hall faded away. The first years lined
up in front of the staff table facing the rest of the students, and Pro
fessor McGonagall placed the stool carefully in front of them, then
stood back.
The first years faces glowed palely in the candlelight. A small boy
right in the middle of the row looked as though he was trembling.
Harry recalled, fleetingly, how terrified he had felt when he had stood
there, waiting for the unknown test that would determine to which
House he belonged.
The whole school waited with bated breath. Then the rip near the
hats brim opened wide like a mouth and the Sorting Hat burst into
song
In times of old when I was new
And Hogwarts barely started
The founders of our noble school
Thought never to be parted
United by a common goal,
They had the selfsame yearning,
To make the worlds best magic school
And pass along their learning.
Together we will build and teach!
The four good friends decided
And never did they dream that they
Might someday be divided,
For were there such friends anywhere
As Slytherin and Gryffndor?
Unless it was the second pair
Of Huffepuff and Ravenclaw?


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
So how could it have gone so wrong?
How could such friendships fail?
Why, I was there and so can tell
The whole sad, sorry tale.
Said Slytherin, Well teach just those
Whose ancestry is purest.
Said Ravenclaw, Well teach those whose
Intelligence is surest.
Said Gryffindor, Well teach all those
With brave deeds to their name,
Said Hufflepujf, Ill teach the lot,
And treat them just the same.
These differences caused little strife
When first they came to light,
For each of the four founders had
A House in which they might
Take only those they wanted, so,
For instance, Slytherin
Took only pureblood wizards
Of great cunning, just like him,
And only those of sharpest mind
Were taught by Ravenclaw
While the bravest and the boldest
Went to daring Gryffindor.
Good Hufflepujf she took the rest,
And taught them all she knew,
Thus the Houses and their founders
Retained friendships firm and true.
So Hogwarts worked in harmony
For several happy years,
But then discord crept among us
Feeding on our faults and fears.


CHAPTER ELEVEN
The Houses that, like pillars four,
Had once held up our school,
Now turned upon each other and,
Divided, sought to rule.
And for a while it seemed the school
Must meet an early end,
What with dueling and with fighting
And the clash of friend on friend
And at last there came a morning
When old Slytherin departed
And though the fighting then died out
He left us quite downhearted.
And never since the founders four
Were whittled down to three
Have the Houses been united
As they once were meant to be.
And now the Sorting Hat is here
And you all know the score
I sort you into Houses
Because that is what Im for,
But this year Ill go further,
Listen closely to my song
Though condemned I am to split you
Still I worry that its wrong,
Though I must fulfill my duty
And must quarter every year
Still I wonder whether sorting
May not bring the end I fear.
Oh, know the perils, read the signs,
The warning history shows,
For our Hogwarts is in danger
From external, deadly foes


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
And we must unite inside her
Or well crumble from within.
I have told you, I have warned you. . . .
Let the Sorting now begin.
The hat became motionless once more applause broke out, though
it was punctured, for the first time in Harrys memory, with mutter
ing and whispers. All across the Great Hall students were exchanging
remarks with their neighbors and Harry, clapping along with every
one else, knew exactly what they were talking about.
Branched out a bit this year, hasnt it? said Ron, his eyebrows
raised.
Too right it has, said Harry.
The Sorting Hat usually confined itself to describing the different
qualities looked for by each of the four Hogwarts Houses and its own
role in sorting them Harry could not remember it ever trying to give
the school advice before.
I wonder if its ever given warnings before? said Hermione,
sounding slightly anxious.
Yes, indeed, said Nearly Headless Nick knowledgeably, leaning
across Neville toward her Neville winced, it was very uncomfortable
to have a ghost lean through you. The hat feels itself honorbound
to give the school due warning whenever it feels 
But Professor McGonagall, who was waiting to read out the list of
first years names, was giving the whispering students the sort of look
that scorches. Nearly Headless Nick placed a seethrough finger to his
lips and sat primly upright again as the muttering came to an abrupt
end. With a last frowning look that swept the four House tables, Pro
fessor McGonagall lowered her eyes to her long piece of parchment
and called out,
Abercrombie, Euan.
The terrifiedlooking boy Harry had noticed earlier stumbled


CHAPTER ELEVEN
forward and put the hat on his head it was only prevented from
falling right down to his shoulders by his very prominent ears. The hat
considered for a moment, then the rip near the brim opened again
and shouted, GRYFFINDOR !
Harry clapped loudly with the rest of Gryffindor House as Euan
Abercrombie staggered to their table and sat down, looking as though
he would like very much to sink through the floor and never be
looked at again.
Slowly the long line of first years thinned in the pauses between
the names and the Sorting Hats decisions, Harry could hear Rons
stomach rumbling loudly. Finally, Zeller, Rose was sorted into Huf
flepuff, and Professor McGonagall picked up the hat and stool and
marched them away as Professor Dumbledore rose to his feet.
Harry was somehow soothed to see Dumbledore standing before
them all, whatever his recent bitter feelings toward his headmaster.
Between the absence of Hagrid and the presence of those dragonish
horses, he had felt that his return to Hogwarts, so long anticipated,
was full of unexpected surprises like jarring notes in a familiar song.
But this, at least, was how it was supposed to be their headmaster ris
ing to greet them all before the startofterm feast.
To our newcomers, said Dumbledore in a ringing voice, his arms
stretched wide and a beaming smile on his lips, welcome! To our old
hands  welcome back! There is a time for speech making, but this is
not it. Tuck in!
There was an appreciative laugh and an outbreak of applause as Dum
bledore sat down neatly and threw his long beard over his shoulder so as
to keep it out of the way of his plate  for food had appeared out of
nowhere, so that the five long tables were groaning under joints and pies
and dishes of vegetables, bread, sauces, and flagons of pumpkin juice.
Excellent, said Ron, with a kind of groan of longing, and he
seized the nearest plate of chops and began piling them onto his plate,
watched wistfully by Nearly Headless Nick.


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
What were you saying before the Sorting? Hermione asked the
ghost. About the hat giving warnings?
Oh yes, said Nick, who seemed glad of a reason to turn away
from Ron, who was now eating roast potatoes with almost indecent
enthusiasm. Yes, I have heard the hat give several warnings before,
always at times when it detects periods of great danger for the school.
And always, of course, its advice is the same Stand together, be strong
from within.
Ow kunnit nofe skusin danger ifzat? said Ron.
His mouth was so full Harry thought it was quite an achievement
for him to make any noise at all.
I beg your pardon? said Nearly Headless Nick politely, while
Hermione looked revolted. Ron gave an enormous swallow and said,
How can it know if the schools in danger if its a hat?
I have no idea, said Nearly Headless Nick. Of course, it lives in
Dumbledores office, so I daresay it picks things up there.
And it wants all the Houses to be friends? said Harry, looking
over at the Slytherin table, where Draco Malfoy was holding court.
Fat chance.
Well, now, you shouldnt take that attitude, said Nick reprovingly.
Peaceful cooperation, thats the key. We ghosts, though we belong to
separate Houses, maintain links of friendship. In spite of the compet
itiveness between Gryffindor and Slytherin, I would never dream of
seeking an argument with the Bloody Baron.
Only because youre terrified of him, said Ron.
Nearly Headless Nick looked highly affronted.
Terrified? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de MimsyPorpington, have never
been guilty of cowardice in my life! The noble blood that runs in my
veins 
What blood? asked Ron. Surely you havent still got  ?
Its a figure of speech! said Nearly Headless Nick, now so annoyed
his head was trembling ominously on his partially severed neck. I


CHAPTER ELEVEN
assume I am still allowed to enjoy the use of whichever words I like,
even if the pleasures of eating and drinking are denied me! But I am
quite used to students poking fun at my death, I assure you!
Nick, he wasnt really laughing at you! said Hermione, throwing
a furious look at Ron.
Unfortunately, Rons mouth was packed to exploding point again
and all he could manage was node iddum eentup sechew, which
Nick did not seem to think constituted an adequate apology. Rising
into the air, he straightened his feathered hat and swept away from
them to the other end of the table, coming to rest between the
Creevey brothers, Colin and Dennis.
Well done, Ron, snapped Hermione.
What? said Ron indignantly, having managed, finally, to swallow
his food. Im not allowed to ask a simple question?
Oh forget it, said Hermione irritably, and the pair of them spent
the rest of the meal in huffy silence.
Harry was too used to their bickering to bother trying to reconcile
them he felt it was a better use of his time to eat his way steadily
through his steakandkidney pie, then a large plateful of his favorite
treacle tart.
When all the students had finished eating and the noise level in the
hall was starting to creep upward again, Dumbledore got to his feet
once more. Talking ceased immediately as all turned to face the head
master. Harry was feeling pleasantly drowsy now. His fourposter bed
was waiting somewhere above, wonderfully warm and soft. . . .
Well, now that we are all digesting another magnificent feast, I beg
a few moments of your attention for the usual startofterm notices,
said Dumbledore. First years ought to know that the forest in the
grounds is out of bounds to students  and a few of our older students
ought to know by now too. Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged
smirks.


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
Mr. Filch, the caretaker, has asked me, for what he tells me is the
four hundred and sixtysecond time, to remind you all that magic is
not permitted in corridors between classes, nor are a number of other
things, all of which can be checked on the extensive list now fastened
to Mr. Filchs office door.
We have had two changes in staffing this year. We are very pleased
to welcome back Professor GrubblyPlank, who will be taking Care of
Magical Creatures lessons we are also delighted to introduce Profes
sor Umbridge, our new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher.
There was a round of polite but fairly unenthusiastic applause dur
ing which Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged slightly panicked
looks Dumbledore had not said for how long GrubblyPlank would
be teaching.
Dumbledore continued, Tryouts for the House Quidditch teams
will take place on the 
He broke off, looking inquiringly at Professor Umbridge. As she
was not much taller standing than sitting, there was a moment when
nobody understood why Dumbledore had stopped talking, but then
Professor Umbridge said, Hem, hem, and it became clear that she
had got to her feet and was intending to make a speech.
Dumbledore only looked taken aback for a moment, then he sat
back down smartly and looked alertly at Professor Umbridge as
though he desired nothing better than to listen to her talk. Other
members of staff were not as adept at hiding their surprise. Professor
Sprouts eyebrows had disappeared into her flyaway hair, and Profes
sor McGonagalls mouth was as thin as Harry had ever seen it. No
new teacher had ever interrupted Dumbledore before. Many of the
students were smirking this woman obviously did not know how
things were done at Hogwarts.
Thank you, Headmaster, Professor Umbridge simpered, for
those kind words of welcome.


CHAPTER ELEVEN
Her voice was highpitched, breathy, and littlegirlish and again,
Harry felt a powerful rush of dislike that he could not explain to him
self all he knew was that he loathed everything about her, from her
stupid voice to her fluffy pink cardigan. She gave another little throat
clearing cough Hem, hem and continued Well, it is lovely to be
back at Hogwarts, I must say! She smiled, revealing very pointed
teeth. And to see such happy little faces looking back at me!
Harry glanced around. None of the faces he could see looked
happy on the contrary, they all looked rather taken aback at being
addressed as though they were five years old.
I am very much looking forward to getting to know you all, and
Im sure well be very good friends!
Students exchanged looks at this some of them were barely con
cealing grins.
Ill be her friend as long as I dont have to borrow that cardigan,
Parvati whispered to Lavender, and both of them lapsed into silent
giggles.
Professor Umbridge cleared her throat again Hem, hem, but
when she continued, some of the breathiness had vanished from her
voice. She sounded much more businesslike and now her words had a
dull learnedbyheart sound to them.
The Ministry of Magic has always considered the education of
young witches and wizards to be of vital importance. The rare gifts
with which you were born may come to nothing if not nurtured and
honed by careful instruction. The ancient skills unique to the Wiz
arding community must be passed down through the generations lest
we lose them forever. The treasure trove of magical knowledge
amassed by our ancestors must be guarded, replenished, and polished
by those who have been called to the noble profession of teaching.
Professor Umbridge paused here and made a little bow to her
fellow staff members, none of whom bowed back. Professor McGona
galls dark eyebrows had contracted so that she looked positively


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
hawklike, and Harry distinctly saw her exchange a significant glance
with Professor Sprout as Umbridge gave another little Hem, hem and
went on with her speech.
Every headmaster and headmistress of Hogwarts has brought
something new to the weighty task of governing this historic school,
and that is as it should be, for without progress there will be stagnation
and decay. There again, progress for progresss sake must be discour
aged, for our tried and tested traditions often require no tinkering. A
balance, then, between old and new, between permanence and change,
between tradition and innovation . . .
Harry found his attentiveness ebbing, as though his brain was slip
ping in and out of tune. The quiet that always filled the Hall when
Dumbledore was speaking was breaking up as students put their heads
together, whispering and giggling. Over at the Ravenclaw table, Cho
Chang was chatting animatedly with her friends. A few seats along
from Cho, Luna Lovegood had got out The Quibbler again. Mean
while at the Hufflepuff table, Ernie Macmillan was one of the few still
staring at Professor Umbridge, but he was glassyeyed and Harry was
sure he was only pretending to listen in an attempt to live up to the
new prefects badge gleaming on his chest.
Professor Umbridge did not seem to notice the restlessness of her
audience. Harry had the impression that a fullscale riot could have
broken out under her nose and she would have plowed on with her
speech. The teachers, however, were still listening very attentively, and
Hermione seemed to be drinking in every word Umbridge spoke,
though judging by her expression, they were not at all to her taste.
. . . because some changes will be for the better, while others will
come, in the fullness of time, to be recognized as errors of judgment.
Meanwhile, some old habits will be retained, and rightly so, whereas
others, outmoded and outworn, must be abandoned. Let us move
forward, then, into a new era of openness, effectiveness, and account
ability, intent on preserving what ought to be preserved, perfecting


CHAPTER ELEVEN
what needs to be perfected, and pruning wherever we find practices
that ought to be prohibited.
She sat down. Dumbledore clapped. The staff followed his lead,
though Harry noticed that several of them brought their hands to
gether only once or twice before stopping. A few students joined in,
but most had been taken unawares by the end of the speech, not hav
ing listened to more than a few words of it, and before they could start
applauding properly, Dumbledore had stood up again.
Thank you very much, Professor Umbridge, that was most illumi
nating, he said, bowing to her. Now  as I was saying, Quidditch
tryouts will be held . . .
Yes, it certainly was illuminating, said Hermione in a low voice.
Youre not telling me you enjoyed it? Ron said quietly, turning a
glazed face upon Hermione. That was about the dullest speech Ive
ever heard, and I grew up with Percy.
I said illuminating, not enjoyable, said Hermione. It explained
a lot.
Did it? said Harry in surprise. Sounded like a load of waffle to me.
There was some important stuff hidden in the waffle, said Her
mione grimly.
Was there? said Ron blankly.
How about progress for progresss sake must be discouraged? How
about pruning wherever we find practices that ought to be prohibited?
Well, what does that mean? said Ron impatiently.
Ill tell you what it means, said Hermione ominously. It means
the Ministrys interfering at Hogwarts.
There was a great clattering and banging all around them Dumb
ledore had obviously just dismissed the school, because everyone was
standing up ready to leave the Hall. Hermione jumped up, looking
flustered.
Ron, were supposed to show the first years where to go!


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
Oh yeah, said Ron, who had obviously forgotten. Hey  hey
you lot! Midgets!
Ron!
Well, they are, theyre titchy. . . .
I know, but you cant call them midgets. . . . First years! Hermione
called commandingly along the table. This way, please!
A group of new students walked shyly up the gap between the
Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables, all of them trying hard not to lead
the group. They did indeed seem very small Harry was sure he had
not appeared that young when he had arrived here. He grinned at
them. A blond boy next to Euan Abercrombie looked petrified,
nudged Euan, and whispered something in his ear. Euan Abercrombie
looked equally frightened and stole a horrified look at Harry, who felt
the grin slide off his face like Stinksap.
See you later, he said to Ron and Hermione and he made his way
out of the Great Hall alone, doing everything he could to ignore more
whispering, staring, and pointing as he passed. He kept his eyes fixed
ahead as he wove his way through the crowd in the entrance hall, then
he hurried up the marble staircase, took a couple of concealed short
cuts, and had soon left most of the crowds behind.
He had been stupid not to expect this, he thought angrily, as he
walked through much emptier upstairs corridors. Of course everyone
was staring at him He had emerged from the Triwizard maze two
months ago clutching the dead body of a fellow student and claiming
to have seen Lord Voldemort return to power. There had not been
time last term to explain himself before everyone went home, even if
he had felt up to giving the whole school a detailed account of the ter
rible events in that graveyard.
He had reached the end of the corridor to the Gryffindor common
room and had come to a halt in front of the portrait of the Fat Lady
before he realized that he did not know the new password.


CHAPTER ELEVEN
Er . . . he said glumly, staring up at the Fat Lady, who smoothed
the folds of her pink satin dress and looked sternly back at him.
No password, no entrance, she said loftily.
Harry, I know it! someone panted from behind him, and he
turned to see Neville jogging toward him. Guess what it is? Im actu
ally going to be able to remember it for once  He waved the
stunted little cactus he had shown them on the train. Mimbulus
mimbletonia!
Correct, said the Fat Lady, and her portrait swung open toward
them like a door, revealing a circular hole in the wall behind, through
which Harry and Neville now climbed.
The Gryffindor common room looked as welcoming as ever, a cozy
circular tower room full of dilapidated squashy armchairs and rickety
old tables. A fire was crackling merrily in the grate and a few people
were warming their hands before going up to their dormitories on the
other side of the room Fred and George Weasley were pinning some
thing up on the notice board. Harry waved good night to them and
headed straight for the door to the boys dormitories he was not in
much of a mood for talking at the moment. Neville followed him.
Dean Thomas and Seamus Finnigan had reached the dormitory
first and were in the process of covering the walls beside their beds
with posters and photographs. They had been talking as Harry
pushed open the door but stopped abruptly the moment they saw
him. Harry wondered whether they had been talking about him, then
whether he was being paranoid.
Hi, he said, moving across to his own trunk and opening it.
Hey, Harry, said Dean, who was putting on a pair of pajamas in
the West Ham colors. Good holiday?
Not bad, muttered Harry, as a true account of his holiday would
have taken most of the night to relate and he could not face it. You?
Yeah, it was okay, chuckled Dean. Better than Seamuss anyway,
he was just telling me.


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
Why, what happened, Seamus? Neville asked as he placed his
Mimbulus mimbletonia tenderly on his bedside cabinet.
Seamus did not answer immediately he was making rather a meal
of ensuring that his poster of the Kenmare Kestrels Quidditch team
was quite straight. Then he said, with his back still turned to Harry,
Me mam didnt want me to come back.
What? said Harry, pausing in the act of pulling off his robes.
She didnt want me to come back to Hogwarts.
Seamus turned away from his poster and pulled his own pajamas
out of his trunk, still not looking at Harry.
But  why? said Harry, astonished. He knew that Seamuss
mother was a witch and could not understand, therefore, why she
should have come over so Dursleyish.
Seamus did not answer until he had finished buttoning his pajamas.
Well, he said in a measured voice, I suppose . . . because of you.
What dyou mean? said Harry quickly. His heart was beating
rather fast. He felt vaguely as though something was closing in on him.
Well, said Seamus again, still avoiding Harrys eyes, she . . . er
. . . well, its not just you, its Dumbledore too . . .
She believes the Daily Prophet? said Harry. She thinks Im a liar
and Dumbledores an old fool?
Seamus looked up at him. Yeah, something like that.
Harry said nothing. He threw his wand down onto his bedside
table, pulled off his robes, stuffed them angrily into his trunk, and
pulled on his pajamas. He was sick of it sick of being the person who
was stared at and talked about all the time. If any of them knew, if any
of them had the faintest idea what it felt like to be the one all these
things had happened to . . . Mrs. Finnigan had no idea, the stupid
woman, he thought savagely.
He got into bed and made to pull the hangings closed around him,
but before he could do so, Seamus said, Look . . . what did happen
that night when . . . you know, when . . . with Cedric Diggory and all?


CHAPTER ELEVEN
Seamus sounded nervous and eager at the same time. Dean, who
had been bending over his trunk, trying to retrieve a slipper, went
oddly still and Harry knew he was listening hard.
What are you asking me for? Harry retorted. Just read the Daily
Prophet like your mother, why dont you? Thatll tell you all you need
to know.
Dont you have a go at my mother, snapped Seamus.
Ill have a go at anyone who calls me a liar, said Harry.
Dont talk to me like that!
Ill talk to you how I want, said Harry, his temper rising so fast he
snatched his wand back from his bedside table. If youve got a prob
lem sharing a dormitory with me, go and ask McGonagall if you can
be moved, stop your mummy worrying 
Leave my mother out of this, Potter!
Whats going on?
Ron had appeared in the doorway. His wide eyes traveled from
Harry, who was kneeling on his bed with his wand pointing at Sea
mus, to Seamus, who was standing there with his fists raised.
Hes having a go at my mother! Seamus yelled.
What? said Ron. Harry wouldnt do that  we met your mother,
we liked her. . . .
Thats before she started believing every word the stinking Daily
Prophet writes about me! said Harry at the top of his voice.
Oh, said Ron, comprehension dawning across his freckled face.
Oh . . . right.
You know what? said Seamus heatedly, casting Harry a venomous
look. Hes right, I dont want to share a dormitory with him any
more, hes a madman.
Thats out of order, Seamus, said Ron, whose ears were starting to
glow red, always a danger sign.
Out of order, am I? shouted Seamus, who in contrast with Ron


THE SORTING HATS
NEW SONG
was turning paler. You believe all the rubbish hes come out with
about YouKnowWho, do you, you reckon hes telling the truth?
Yeah, I do! said Ron angrily.
Then youre mad too, said Seamus in disgust.
Yeah? Well unfortunately for you, pal, Im also a prefect! said
Ron, jabbing himself in the chest with a finger. So unless you want
detention, watch your mouth!
Seamus looked for a few seconds as though detention would be a
reasonable price to pay to say what was going through his mind but
with a noise of contempt he turned on his heel, vaulted into bed, and
pulled the hangings shut with such violence that they were ripped
from the bed and fell in a dusty pile to the floor. Ron glared at Sea
mus, then looked at Dean and Neville.
Anyone elses parents got a problem with Harry? he said
aggressively.
My parents are Muggles, mate, said Dean, shrugging. They
dont know nothing about no deaths at Hogwarts, because Im not
stupid enough to tell them.
You dont know my mother, shell weasel anything out of anyone!
Seamus snapped at him. Anyway, your parents dont get the Daily
Prophet, they dont know our headmasters been sacked from the Wiz
engamot and the International Confederation of Wizards because hes
losing his marbles 
My gran says thats rubbish, piped up Neville. She says its the
Daily Prophet thats going downhill, not Dumbledore. Shes canceled
our subscription. We believe Harry, he said simply. He climbed into
bed and pulled the covers up to his chin, looking owlishly over them
at Seamus. My grans always said YouKnowWho would come back
one day. She says if Dumbledore says hes back, hes back.
Harry felt a rush of gratitude toward Neville. Nobody else said
anything. Seamus got out his wand, repaired the bed hangings, and


CHAPTER ELEVEN
vanished behind them. Dean got into bed, rolled over, and fell silent.
Neville, who appeared to have nothing more to say either, was gazing
fondly at his moonlit cactus.
Harry lay back on his pillows while Ron bustled around the next
bed, putting his things away. He felt shaken by the argument with
Seamus, whom he had always liked very much. How many more peo
ple were going to suggest that he was lying or unhinged?
Had Dumbledore suffered like this all summer, as first the Wizen
gamot, then the International Confederation of Wizards had thrown
him from their ranks? Was it anger at Harry, perhaps, that had
stopped Dumbledore getting in touch with him for months? The two
of them were in this together, after all Dumbledore had believed
Harry, announced his version of events to the whole school and then
to the wider Wizarding community. Anyone who thought Harry was
a liar had to think that Dumbledore was too or else that Dumbledore
had been hoodwinked. . . .
Theyll know were right in the end, thought Harry miserably, as Ron
got into bed and extinguished the last candle in the dormitory. But he
wondered how many attacks like Seamuss he would have to endure
before that time came.


C H A P T E R T W E L V E
PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
S
eamus dressed at top speed next morning and left the dormitory
before Harry had even put on his socks.
Does he think hell turn into a nutter if he stays in a room with me
too long? asked Harry loudly, as the hem of Seamuss robes whipped
out of sight.
Dont worry about it, Harry, Dean muttered, hoisting his school
bag onto his shoulder. Hes just . . . But apparently he was unable to
say exactly what Seamus was, and after a slightly awkward pause fol
lowed him out of the room.
Neville and Ron both gave Harry itshisproblemnotyours looks,
but Harry was not much consoled. How much more of this was he
going to have to take?
Whats the matter? asked Hermione five minutes later, catching
up with Harry and Ron halfway across the common room as they all
headed toward breakfast. You look absolutely  oh for heavens
sake.
She was staring at the common room notice board, where a large
new sign had been put up.


CHAPTER TWELVE
G ALLONS OF G ALLEONS !
Pocket money failing to keep pace with your outgoings?
Like to earn a little extra gold?
Contact Fred and George Weasley,
Gryffindor common room,
for simple, parttime, virtually painless jobs
 WE
R E G R E T T HA T A L L W O R K I S U N D E R T A K E N A T A P P L I CA N T  S O WN R I S K 
They are the limit, said Hermione grimly, taking down the sign,
which Fred and George had pinned up over a poster giving the date of
the first Hogsmeade weekend in October. Well have to talk to them,
Ron.
Ron looked positively alarmed.
Why?
Because were prefects! said Hermione, as they climbed out
through the portrait hole. Its up to us to stop this kind of thing!
Ron said nothing Harry could tell from his glum expression that
the prospect of stopping Fred and George doing exactly what they
liked was not one that he found inviting.
Anyway, whats up, Harry? Hermione continued, as they walked
down a flight of stairs lined with portraits of old witches and wizards,
all of whom ignored them, being engrossed in their own conversation.
You look really angry about something.
Seamus reckons Harrys lying about YouKnowWho, said Ron
succinctly, when Harry did not respond.
Hermione, whom Harry had expected to react angrily on his behalf,
sighed.
Yes, Lavender thinks so too, she said gloomily.
Been having a nice little chat with her about whether or not Im a
lying, attentionseeking prat, have you? Harry said loudly.
No, said Hermione calmly, I told her to keep her big fat mouth


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
shut about you, actually. And it would be quite nice if you stopped
jumping down Rons and my throats, Harry, because if you havent
noticed, were on your side.
There was a short pause.
Sorry, said Harry in a low voice.
Thats quite all right, said Hermione with dignity. Then she
shook her head. Dont you remember what Dumbledore said at the
endofterm feast last year?
Harry and Ron both looked at her blankly, and Hermione sighed
again.
About YouKnowWho. He said,  His gift for spreading discord and
enmity is very great. We can fight it only by showing an equally strong
bond of friendship and trust  
How do you remember stuff like that? asked Ron, looking at her
in admiration.
I listen, Ron, said Hermione with a touch of asperity.
So do I, but I still couldnt tell you exactly what 
The point, Hermione pressed on loudly, is that this sort of thing
is exactly what Dumbledore was talking about. YouKnowWhos
only been back two months, and weve started fighting among our
selves. And the Sorting Hats warning was the same  stand together,
be united 
And Harry said it last night, retorted Ron, if that means were
supposed to get matey with the Slytherins, fat chance.
Well, I think its a pity were not trying for a bit of interHouse
unity, said Hermione crossly.
They had reached the foot of the marble staircase. A line of fourth
year Ravenclaws was crossing the entrance hall they caught sight of
Harry and hurried to form a tighter group, as though frightened he
might attack stragglers.
Yeah, we really ought to be trying to make friends with people like
that, said Harry sarcastically.


CHAPTER TWELVE
They followed the Ravenclaws into the Great Hall, looking in
stinctively at the staff table as they entered. Professor GrubblyPlank
was chatting to Professor Sinistra, the Astronomy teacher, and Hagrid
was once again conspicuous only by his absence. The enchanted ceil
ing above them echoed Harrys mood it was a miserable raincloud
gray.
Dumbledore didnt even mention how long that GrubblyPlank
womans staying, he said, as they made their way across to the
Gryffindor table.
Maybe . . . said Hermione thoughtfully.
What? said both Harry and Ron together.
Well . . . maybe he didnt want to draw attention to Hagrid not
being here.
What dyou mean, draw attention to it? said Ron, half laughing.
How could we not notice?
Before Hermione could answer, a tall black girl with long, braided
hair had marched up to Harry.
Hi, Angelina.
Hi, she said briskly, good summer? And without waiting for an
answer, Listen, Ive been made Gryffindor Quidditch Captain.
Nice one, said Harry, grinning at her he suspected Angelinas
pep talks might not be as longwinded as Oliver Woods had been,
which could only be an improvement.
Yeah, well, we need a new Keeper now Olivers left. Tryouts are on
Friday at five oclock and I want the whole team there, all right? Then
we can see how the new personll fit in.
Okay, said Harry, and she smiled at him and departed.
Id forgotten Wood had left, said Hermione vaguely, sitting down
beside Ron and pulling a plate of toast toward her. I suppose that will
make quite a difference to the team?
I spose, said Harry, taking the bench opposite. He was a good
Keeper. . . .


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
Still, it wont hurt to have some new blood, will it? said Ron.
With a whoosh and a clatter, hundreds of owls came soaring in
through the upper windows. They descended all over the Hall, bring
ing letters and packages to their owners and showering the breakfasters
with droplets of water it was clearly raining hard outside. Hedwig was
nowhere to be seen, but Harry was hardly surprised his only corre
spondent was Sirius, and he doubted Sirius would have anything new
to tell him after only twentyfour hours apart. Hermione, however,
had to move her orange juice aside quickly to make way for a large
damp barn owl bearing a sodden Daily Prophet in its beak.
What are you still getting that for? said Harry irritably, thinking
of Seamus, as Hermione placed a Knut in the leather pouch on the
owls leg and it took off again. Im not bothering . . . load of
rubbish.
Its best to know what the enemy are saying, said Hermione
darkly, and she unfurled the newspaper and disappeared behind it,
not emerging until Harry and Ron had finished eating.
Nothing, she said simply, rolling up the newspaper and laying it
down by her plate. Nothing about you or Dumbledore or anything.
Professor McGonagall was now moving along the table handing
out schedules.
Look at today! groaned Ron. History of Magic, double Potions,
Divination, and double Defense Against the Dark Arts . . . Binns,
Snape, Trelawney, and that Umbridge woman all in one day! I wish Fred
and Georged hurry up and get those Skiving Snackboxes sorted. . . .
Do mine ears deceive me? said Fred, arriving with George and
squeezing onto the bench beside Harry. Hogwarts prefects surely
dont wish to skive off lessons?
Look what weve got today, said Ron grumpily, shoving his
schedule under Freds nose. Thats the worst Monday Ive ever seen.
Fair point, little bro, said Fred, scanning the column. You can
have a bit of Nosebleed Nougat cheap if you like.


CHAPTER TWELVE
Whys it cheap? said Ron suspiciously.
Because youll keep bleeding till you shrivel up, we havent got an
antidote yet, said George, helping himself to a kipper.
Cheers, said Ron moodily, pocketing his schedule, but I think
Ill take the lessons.
And speaking of your Skiving Snackboxes, said Hermione, eyeing
Fred and George beadily, you cant advertise for testers on the
Gryffindor notice board.
Says who? said George, looking astonished.
Says me, said Hermione. And Ron.
Leave me out of it, said Ron hastily.
Hermione glared at him. Fred and George sniggered.
Youll be singing a different tune soon enough, Hermione, said
Fred, thickly buttering a crumpet. Youre starting your fifth year,
youll be begging us for a Snackbox before long.
And why would starting fifth year mean I want a Skiving Snack
box? asked Hermione.
Fifth years O.W.L. year, said George.
So?
So youve got your exams coming up, havent you? Theyll be keep
ing your noses so hard to that grindstone theyll be rubbed raw, said
Fred with satisfaction.
Half our year had minor breakdowns coming up to O.W.L.s, said
George happily. Tears and tantrums . . . Patricia Stimpson kept com
ing over faint. . . .
Kenneth Towler came out in boils, dyou remember? said Fred
reminiscently.
Thats cause you put Bulbadox Powder in his pajamas, said
George.
Oh yeah, said Fred, grinning. Id forgotten. . . . Hard to keep
track sometimes, isnt it?
Anyway, its a nightmare of a year, the fifth, said George. If you


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
care about exam results anyway. Fred and I managed to keep our spir
its up somehow.
Yeah . . . you got, what was it, three O.W.L.s each? said Ron.
Yep, said Fred unconcernedly. But we feel our futures lie outside
the world of academic achievement.
We seriously debated whether we were going to bother coming
back for our seventh year, said George brightly, now that weve
got 
He broke off at a warning look from Harry, who knew George had
been about to mention the Triwizard winnings he had given them.
 now that weve got our O.W.L.s, George said hastily. I mean,
do we really need N.E.W.T.s? But we didnt think Mum could take us
leaving school early, not on top of Percy turning out to be the worlds
biggest prat.
Were not going to waste our last year here, though, said Fred,
looking affectionately around at the Great Hall. Were going to use it
to do a bit of market research, find out exactly what the average Hog
warts student requires from his joke shop, carefully evaluate the results
of our research, and then produce the products to fit the demand.
But where are you going to get the gold to start a joke shop?
asked Hermione skeptically. Youre going to need all the ingredients
and materials  and premises too, I suppose. . . .
Harry did not look at the twins. His face felt hot he deliberately
dropped his fork and dived down to retrieve it. He heard Fred say
overhead, Ask us no questions and well tell you no lies, Hermione.
Cmon, George, if we get there early we might be able to sell a few Ex
tendable Ears before Herbology.
Harry emerged from under the table to see Fred and George walk
ing away, each carrying a stack of toast.
What did that mean? said Hermione, looking from Harry to
Ron.  Ask us no questions . . . Does that mean theyve already got
some gold to start a joke shop?


CHAPTER TWELVE
You know, Ive been wondering about that, said Ron, his brow
furrowed. They bought me a new set of dress robes this summer, and
I couldnt understand where they got the Galleons. . . .
Harry decided it was time to steer the conversation out of these
dangerous waters.
Dyou reckon its true this years going to be really tough? Because
of the exams?
Oh yeah, said Ron. Bound to be, isnt it? O.W.L.s are really
important, affect the jobs you can apply for and everything. We get
career advice too, later this year, Bill told me. So you can choose what
N.E.W.T.s you want to do next year.
Dyou know what you want to do after Hogwarts? Harry asked
the other two, as they left the Great Hall shortly afterward and set off
toward their History of Magic classroom.
Not really, said Ron slowly. Except . . . well . . .
He looked slightly sheepish.
What? Harry urged him.
Well, itd be cool to be an Auror, said Ron in an offhand voice.
Yeah, it would, said Harry fervently.
But theyre, like, the elite, said Ron. Youve got to be really good.
What about you, Hermione?
I dont know, said Hermione. I think Id really like to do some
thing worthwhile.
An Aurors worthwhile! said Harry.
Yes, it is, but its not the only worthwhile thing, said Hermione
thoughtfully. I mean, if I could take S.P.E.W. further . . .
Harry and Ron carefully avoided looking at each other.
History of Magic was by common consent the most boring subject
ever devised by Wizardkind. Professor Binns, their ghost teacher, had
a wheezy, droning voice that was almost guaranteed to cause severe
drowsiness within ten minutes, five in warm weather. He never varied
the form of their lessons, but lectured them without pausing while


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
they took notes, or rather, gazed sleepily into space. Harry and Ron
had so far managed to scrape passes in this subject only by copying
Hermiones notes before exams she alone seemed able to resist the so
porific power of Binnss voice.
Today they suffered through three quarters of an hours droning on
the subject of giant wars. Harry heard just enough within the first ten
minutes to appreciate dimly that in another teachers hands this
subject might have been mildly interesting, but then his brain
disengaged, and he spent the remaining thirtyfive minutes playing
hangman on a corner of his parchment with Ron, while Hermione
shot them filthy looks out of the corner of her eye.
How would it be, she asked them coldly as they left the classroom
for break Binns drifting away through the blackboard, if I refused
to lend you my notes this year?
Wed fail our O.W.L.s, said Ron. If you want that on your con
science, Hermione . . .
Well, youd deserve it, she snapped. You dont even try to listen
to him, do you?
We do try, said Ron. We just havent got your brains or your
memory or your concentration  youre just cleverer than we are 
is it nice to rub it in?
Oh, dont give me that rubbish, said Hermione, but she looked
slightly mollified as she led the way out into the damp courtyard.
A fine misty drizzle was falling, so that the people standing in hud
dles around the yard looked blurred at the edges. Harry, Ron, and
Hermione chose a secluded corner under a heavily dripping balcony,
turning up the collars of their robes against the chilly September air
and talking about what Snape was likely to set them in the first lesson
of the year. They had got as far as agreeing that it was likely to be
something extremely difficult, just to catch them off guard after a
twomonth holiday, when someone walked around the corner toward
them.


CHAPTER TWELVE
Hello, Harry!
It was Cho Chang and what was more, she was on her own again.
This was most unusual Cho was almost always surrounded by a gang
of giggling girls Harry remembered the agony of trying to get her by
herself to ask her to the Yule Ball.
Hi, said Harry, feeling his face grow hot. At least youre not covered
in Stinksap this time, he told himself. Cho seemed to be thinking along
the same lines.
You got that stuff off, then?
Yeah, said Harry, trying to grin as though the memory of their
last meeting was funny as opposed to mortifying. So did you . . . er
. . . have a good summer?
The moment he had said this he wished he hadnt Cedric had been
Chos boyfriend and the memory of his death must have affected her
holiday almost as badly as it had affected Harrys. . . . Something
seemed to tauten in her face, but she said, Oh, it was all right, you
know. . . .
Is that a Tornados badge? Ron demanded suddenly, pointing at
the front of Chos robes, to which a skyblue badge emblazoned with
a double gold T was pinned. You dont support them, do you?
Yeah, I do, said Cho.
Have you always supported them, or just since they started win
ning the league? said Ron, in what Harry considered an unnecessarily
accusatory tone of voice.
Ive supported them since I was six, said Cho coolly. Anyway . . .
see you, Harry.
She walked away. Hermione waited until Cho was halfway across
the courtyard before rounding on Ron.
You are so tactless!
What? I only asked her if 
Couldnt you tell she wanted to talk to Harry on her own?


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
So? She couldve done, I wasnt stopping 
What on earth were you attacking her about her Quidditch team
for?
Attacking? I wasnt attacking her, I was only 
Who cares if she supports the Tornados?
Oh, come on, half the people you see wearing those badges only
bought them last season 
But what does it matter?
It means theyre not real fans, theyre just jumping on the
bandwagon 
Thats the bell, said Harry listlessly, because Ron and Hermione
were bickering too loudly to hear it. They did not stop arguing all the
way down to Snapes dungeon, which gave Harry plenty of time to re
flect that between Neville and Ron he would be lucky ever to have two
minutes conversation with Cho that he could look back on without
wanting to leave the country.
And yet, he thought, as they joined the queue lining up outside
Snapes classroom door, she had chosen to come and talk to him, hadnt
she? She had been Cedrics girlfriend she could easily have hated Harry
for coming out of the Triwizard maze alive when Cedric had died, yet
she was talking to him in a perfectly friendly way, not as though she
thought him mad, or a liar, or in some horrible way responsible for
Cedrics death. . . . Yes, she had definitely chosen to come and talk to
him, and that made the second time in two days . . . and at this
thought, Harrys spirits rose. Even the ominous sound of Snapes dun
geon door creaking open did not puncture the small, hopeful bubble
that seemed to have swelled in his chest. He filed into the classroom be
hind Ron and Hermione and followed them to their usual table at the
back, ignoring the huffy, irritable noises now issuing from both of them.
Settle down, said Snape coldly, shutting the door behind him.
There was no real need for the call to order the moment the class


CHAPTER TWELVE
had heard the door close, quiet had fallen and all fidgeting stopped.
Snapes mere presence was usually enough to ensure a classs silence.
Before we begin todays lesson, said Snape, sweeping over to his
desk and staring around at them all, I think it appropriate to remind
you that next June you will be sitting an important examination, dur
ing which you will prove how much you have learned about the
composition and use of magical potions. Moronic though some of
this class undoubtedly are, I expect you to scrape an Acceptable in
your O.W.L., or suffer my . . . displeasure.
His gaze lingered this time upon Neville, who gulped.
After this year, of course, many of you will cease studying with
me, Snape went on. I take only the very best into my N.E.W.T.
Potions class, which means that some of us will certainly be saying
goodbye.
His eyes rested on Harry and his lip curled. Harry glared back, feel
ing a grim pleasure at the idea that he would be able to give up Potions
after fifth year.
But we have another year to go before that happy moment of
farewell, said Snape softly, so whether you are intending to attempt
N.E.W.T. or not, I advise all of you to concentrate your efforts upon
maintaining the highpass level I have come to expect from my
O.W.L. students.
Today we will be mixing a potion that often comes up at Ordinary
Wizarding Level the Draught of Peace, a potion to calm anxiety and
soothe agitation. Be warned If you are too heavyhanded with the
ingredients you will put the drinker into a heavy and sometimes irre
versible sleep, so you will need to pay close attention to what you are
doing. On Harrys left, Hermione sat up a little straighter, her expres
sion one of the utmost attentiveness. The ingredients and method
 Snape flicked his wand  are on the blackboard  they ap
peared there  you will find everything you need  he flicked his


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
wand again  in the store cupboard  the door of the said cup
board sprang open  you have an hour and a half. . . . Start.
Just as Harry, Ron, and Hermione had predicted, Snape could
hardly have set them a more difficult, fiddly potion. The ingredients
had to be added to the cauldron in precisely the right order and quan
tities the mixture had to be stirred exactly the right number of times,
firstly in clockwise, then in counterclockwise directions the heat of
the flames on which it was simmering had to be lowered to exactly the
right level for a specific number of minutes before the final ingredient
was added.
A light silver vapor should now be rising from your potion, called
Snape, with ten minutes left to go.
Harry, who was sweating profusely, looked desperately around the
dungeon. His own cauldron was issuing copious amounts of dark gray
steam Rons was spitting green sparks. Seamus was feverishly prod
ding the flames at the base of his cauldron with the tip of his wand, as
they had gone out. The surface of Hermiones potion, however, was a
shimmering mist of silver vapor, and as Snape swept by he looked
down his hooked nose at it without comment, which meant that he
could find nothing to criticize. At Harrys cauldron, however, Snape
stopped, looking down at Harry with a horrible smirk on his face.
Potter, what is this supposed to be?
The Slytherins at the front of the class all looked up eagerly they
loved hearing Snape taunt Harry.
The Draught of Peace, said Harry tensely.
Tell me, Potter, said Snape softly, can you read?
Draco Malfoy laughed.
Yes, I can, said Harry, his fingers clenched tightly around his
wand.
Read the third line of the instructions for me, Potter.
Harry squinted at the blackboard it was not easy to make out the


CHAPTER TWELVE
instructions through the haze of multicolored steam now filling the
dungeon.
 Add powdered moonstone, stir three times counterclockwise, al
low to simmer for seven minutes, then add two drops of syrup of
hellebore. 
His heart sank. He had not added syrup of hellebore, but had pro
ceeded straight to the fourth line of the instructions after allowing his
potion to simmer for seven minutes.
Did you do everything on the third line, Potter?
No, said Harry very quietly.
I beg your pardon?
No, said Harry, more loudly. I forgot the hellebore. . . .
I know you did, Potter, which means that this mess is utterly
worthless. Evanesco.
The contents of Harrys potion vanished he was left standing fool
ishly beside an empty cauldron.
Those of you who have managed to read the instructions, fill one
flagon with a sample of your potion, label it clearly with your name,
and bring it up to my desk for testing, said Snape. Homework
twelve inches of parchment on the properties of moonstone and its
uses in potionmaking, to be handed in on Thursday.
While everyone around him filled their flagons, Harry cleared away
his things, seething. His potion had been no worse than Rons, which
was now giving off a foul odor of bad eggs, or Nevilles, which had
achieved the consistency of justmixed cement and which Neville was
now having to gouge out of his cauldron, yet it was he, Harry, who
would be receiving zero marks for the days work. He stuffed his wand
back into his bag and slumped down onto his seat, watching everyone
else march up to Snapes desk with filled and corked flagons. When at
long last the bell rang, Harry was first out of the dungeon and had al
ready started his lunch by the time Ron and Hermione joined him in


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
the Great Hall. The ceiling had turned an even murkier gray during
the morning. Rain was lashing the high windows.
That was really unfair, said Hermione consolingly, sitting down
next to Harry and helping herself to shepherds pie. Your potion
wasnt nearly as bad as Goyles, when he put it in his flagon the whole
thing shattered and set his robes on fire.
Yeah, well, said Harry, glowering at his plate, since when has
Snape ever been fair to me?
Neither of the others answered all three of them knew that Snape
and Harrys mutual enmity had been absolute from the moment
Harry had set foot in Hogwarts.
I did think he might be a bit better this year, said Hermione in a
disappointed voice. I mean . . . you know . . . She looked carefully
around there were half a dozen empty seats on either side of them and
nobody was passing the table. . . . Now hes in the Order and
everything.
Poisonous toadstools dont change their spots, said Ron sagely.
Anyway, Ive always thought Dumbledore was cracked trusting
Snape, wheres the evidence he ever really stopped working for You
KnowWho?
I think Dumbledores probably got plenty of evidence, even if he
doesnt share it with you, Ron, snapped Hermione.
Oh, shut up, the pair of you, said Harry heavily, as Ron opened
his mouth to argue back. Hermione and Ron both froze, looking an
gry and offended. Cant you give it a rest? he said. Youre always
having a go at each other, its driving me mad. And abandoning his
shepherds pie, he swung his schoolbag back over his shoulder and left
them sitting there.
He walked up the marble staircase two steps at a time, past the
many students hurrying toward lunch. The anger that had just flared
so unexpectedly still blazed inside him, and the vision of Ron and


CHAPTER TWELVE
Hermiones shocked faces afforded him a sense of deep satisfaction.
Serve them right, he thought. Why cant they give it a rest? . . . Bickering
all the time . . . Its enough to drive anyone up the wall. . . .
He passed the large picture of Sir Cadogan the knight on a landing
Sir Cadogan drew his sword and brandished it fiercely at Harry, who
ignored him.
Come back, you scurvy dog, stand fast and fight! yelled Sir Cado
gan in a muffled voice from behind his visor, but Harry merely walked
on, and when Sir Cadogan attempted to follow him by running into
a neighboring picture, he was rebuffed by its inhabitant, a large and
angrylooking wolfhound.
Harry spent the rest of the lunch hour sitting alone underneath the
trapdoor at the top of North Tower, and consequently he was the first
to ascend the silver ladder that led to Sibyll Trelawneys classroom
when the bell rang.
Divination was Harrys least favorite class after Potions, which was
due mainly to Professor Trelawneys habit of predicting his premature
death every few lessons. A thin woman, heavily draped in shawls and
glittering with strings of beads, she always reminded Harry of some
kind of insect, with her glasses hugely magnifying her eyes. She was
busy putting copies of battered, leatherbound books on each of the
spindly little tables with which her room was littered when Harry en
tered the room, but so dim was the light cast by the lamps covered by
scarves and the lowburning, sicklyscented fire that she appeared not
to notice him as he took a seat in the shadows. The rest of the class ar
rived over the next five minutes. Ron emerged from the trapdoor,
looked around carefully, spotted Harry and made directly for him, or
as directly as he could while having to wend his way between tables,
chairs, and overstuffed poufs.
Hermione and me have stopped arguing, he said, sitting down
beside Harry.
Good, grunted Harry.


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
But Hermione says she thinks it would be nice if you stopped tak
ing out your temper on us, said Ron.
Im not 
Im just passing on the message, said Ron, talking over him. But
I reckon shes right. Its not our fault how Seamus and Snape treat
you.
I never said it 
Good day, said Professor Trelawney in her usual misty, dreamy
voice, and Harry broke off, feeling both annoyed and slightly
ashamed of himself again. And welcome back to Divination. I have,
of course, been following your fortunes most carefully over the holi
days, and am delighted to see that you have all returned to Hogwarts
safely  as, of course, I knew you would.
You will find on the tables before you copies of The Dream Oracle,
by Inigo Imago. Dream interpretation is a most important means of di
vining the future and one that may very probably be tested in your
O.W.L. Not, of course, that I believe examination passes or failures are
of the remotest importance when it comes to the sacred art of div
ination. If you have the Seeing Eye, certificates and grades matter very
little. However, the headmaster likes you to sit the examination, so . . .
Her voice trailed away delicately, leaving them all in no doubt that
Professor Trelawney considered her subject above such sordid matters
as examinations.
Turn, please, to the introduction and read what Imago has to say
on the matter of dream interpretation. Then divide into pairs. Use
The Dream Oracle to interpret each others most recent dreams. Carry
on.
The one good thing to be said for this lesson was that it was not a
double period. By the time they had all finished reading the introduc
tion of the book, they had barely ten minutes left for dream interpre
tation. At the table next to Harry and Ron, Dean had paired up with
Neville, who immediately embarked on a longwinded explanation of


CHAPTER TWELVE
a nightmare involving a pair of giant scissors wearing his grand
mothers best hat Harry and Ron merely looked at each other glumly.
I never remember my dreams, said Ron. You say one.
You must remember one of them, said Harry impatiently.
He was not going to share his dreams with anyone. He knew per
fectly well what his regular nightmare about a graveyard meant, he did
not need Ron or Professor Trelawney or the stupid Dream Oracle to
tell him that. . . .
Well, I had one that I was playing Quidditch the other night,
said Ron, screwing up his face in an effort to remember. What dyou
reckon that means?
Probably that youre going to be eaten by a giant marshmallow or
something, said Harry, turning the pages of The Dream Oracle with
out interest.
It was very dull work looking up bits of dreams in the Oracle and
Harry was not cheered up when Professor Trelawney set them the task
of keeping a dream diary for a month as homework. When the bell
went, he and Ron led the way back down the ladder, Ron grumbling
loudly.
Dyou realize how much homework weve got already? Binns set
us a footandahalflong essay on giant wars, Snape wants a foot on
the use of moonstones, and now weve got a months dream diary from
Trelawney! Fred and George werent wrong about O.W.L. year, were
they? That Umbridge woman had better not give us any. . . .
When they entered the Defense Against the Dark Arts classroom
they found Professor Umbridge already seated at the teachers desk,
wearing the fluffy pink cardigan of the night before and the black vel
vet bow on top of her head. Harry was again reminded forcibly of a
large fly perched unwisely on top of an even larger toad.
The class was quiet as it entered the room Professor Umbridge
was, as yet, an unknown quantity and nobody knew yet how strict a
disciplinarian she was likely to be.


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
Well, good afternoon! she said when finally the whole class had
sat down.
A few people mumbled Good afternoon, in reply.
Tut, tut, said Professor Umbridge. That wont do, now, will it? I
should like you, please, to reply Good afternoon, Professor Um
bridge. One more time, please. Good afternoon, class!
Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge, they chanted back at her.
There, now, said Professor Umbridge sweetly. That wasnt too
difficult, was it? Wands away and quills out, please.
Many of the class exchanged gloomy looks the order wands away
had never yet been followed by a lesson they had found interesting.
Harry shoved his wand back inside his bag and pulled out quill, ink,
and parchment. Professor Umbridge opened her handbag, extracted
her own wand, which was an unusually short one, and tapped the
blackboard sharply with it words appeared on the board at once
Defense Against the Dark Arts
A Return to Basic Principles.
Well now, your teaching in this subject has been rather disrupted
and fragmented, hasnt it? stated Professor Umbridge, turning to face
the class with her hands clasped neatly in front of her. The constant
changing of teachers, many of whom do not seem to have followed
any Ministryapproved curriculum, has unfortunately resulted in
your being far below the standard we would expect to see in your
O.W.L. year.
You will be pleased to know, however, that these problems are now
to be rectified. We will be following a carefully structured, theory
centered, Ministryapproved course of defensive magic this year.
Copy down the following, please.
She rapped the blackboard again the first message vanished and
was replaced by


CHAPTER TWELVE
Course aims
. Understanding the principles underlying defensive magic.
. Learning to recognize situations in which defensive magic
can legally be used.
. Placing the use of defensive magic in a context for
practical use.
For a couple of minutes the room was full of the sound of scratch
ing quills on parchment. When everyone had copied down Professor
Umbridges three course aims she said, Has everybody got a copy of
Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?
There was a dull murmur of assent throughout the class.
I think well try that again, said Professor Umbridge. When I
ask you a question, I should like you to reply Yes, Professor Um
bridge, or No, Professor Umbridge. So, has everyone got a copy of
Defensive Magical Theory by Wilbert Slinkhard?
Yes, Professor Umbridge, rang through the room.
Good, said Professor Umbridge. I should like you to turn to
page five and read chapter one, Basics for Beginners. There will be
no need to talk.
Professor Umbridge left the blackboard and settled herself in the
chair behind the teachers desk, observing them all with those pouchy
toads eyes. Harry turned to page five of his copy of Defensive Magical
Theory and started to read.
It was desperately dull, quite as bad as listening to Professor Binns.
He felt his concentration sliding away from him he had soon read the
same line half a dozen times without taking in more than the first few
words. Several silent minutes passed. Next to him, Ron was absent
mindedly turning his quill over and over in his fingers, staring at the
same spot on the page. Harry looked right and received a surprise to
shake him out of his torpor. Hermione had not even opened her copy


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
of Defensive Magical Theory. She was staring fixedly at Professor Um
bridge with her hand in the air.
Harry could not remember Hermione ever neglecting to read when
instructed to, or indeed resisting the temptation to open any book
that came under her nose. He looked at her questioningly, but she
merely shook her head slightly to indicate that she was not about to
answer questions, and continued to stare at Professor Umbridge, who
was looking just as resolutely in another direction.
After several more minutes had passed, however, Harry was not the
only one watching Hermione. The chapter they had been instructed
to read was so tedious that more and more people were choosing to
watch Hermiones mute attempt to catch Professor Umbridges eye
than to struggle on with Basics for Beginners.
When more than half the class were staring at Hermione rather
than at their books, Professor Umbridge seemed to decide that she
could ignore the situation no longer.
Did you want to ask something about the chapter, dear? she
asked Hermione, as though she had only just noticed her.
Not about the chapter, no, said Hermione.
Well, were reading just now, said Professor Umbridge, showing
her small, pointed teeth. If you have other queries we can deal with
them at the end of class.
Ive got a query about your course aims, said Hermione.
Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows.
And your name is  ?
Hermione Granger, said Hermione.
Well, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are perfectly clear if
you read them through carefully, said Professor Umbridge in a voice
of determined sweetness.
Well, I dont, said Hermione bluntly. Theres nothing written
up there about using defensive spells.


CHAPTER TWELVE
There was a short silence in which many members of the class
turned their heads to frown at the three course aims still written on
the blackboard.
Using defensive spells? Professor Umbridge repeated with a little
laugh. Why, I cant imagine any situation arising in my classroom
that would require you to use a defensive spell, Miss Granger. You
surely arent expecting to be attacked during class?
Were not going to use magic? Ron ejaculated loudly.
Students raise their hands when they wish to speak in my class,
Mr.  ?
Weasley, said Ron, thrusting his hand into the air.
Professor Umbridge, smiling still more widely, turned her back on
him. Harry and Hermione immediately raised their hands too. Pro
fessor Umbridges pouchy eyes lingered on Harry for a moment before
she addressed Hermione.
Yes, Miss Granger? You wanted to ask something else?
Yes, said Hermione. Surely the whole point of Defense Against
the Dark Arts is to practice defensive spells?
Are you a Ministrytrained educational expert, Miss Granger?
asked Professor Umbridge in her falsely sweet voice.
No, but 
Well then, Im afraid you are not qualified to decide what the
whole point of any class is. Wizards much older and cleverer than
you have devised our new program of study. You will be learning
about defensive spells in a secure, riskfree way 
What use is that? said Harry loudly. If were going to be attacked
it wont be in a 
Hand, Mr. Potter! sang Professor Umbridge.
Harry thrust his fist in the air. Professor Umbridge promptly
turned away from him again, but now several other people had their
hands up too.
And your name is? Professor Umbridge said to Dean.


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
Dean Thomas.
Well, Mr. Thomas?
Well, its like Harry said, isnt it? said Dean. If were going to be
attacked, it wont be riskfree 
I repeat, said Professor Umbridge, smiling in a very irritating
fashion at Dean, do you expect to be attacked during my classes?
No, but 
Professor Umbridge talked over him.
I do not wish to criticize the way things have been run in this
school, she said, an unconvincing smile stretching her wide mouth,
but you have been exposed to some very irresponsible wizards in this
class, very irresponsible indeed  not to mention, she gave a nasty
little laugh, extremely dangerous halfbreeds.
If you mean Professor Lupin, piped up Dean Thomas angrily,
he was the best we ever 
Hand, Mr. Thomas! As I was saying  you have been introduced
to spells that have been complex, inappropriate to your age group, and
potentially lethal. You have been frightened into believing that you are
likely to meet Dark attacks every other day 
No we havent, Hermione said, we just 
Your hand is not up, Miss Granger!
Hermione put up her hand Professor Umbridge turned away from
her.
It is my understanding that my predecessor not only performed il
legal curses in front of you, he actually performed them on you 
Well, he turned out to be a maniac, didnt he? said Dean Thomas
hotly. Mind you, we still learned loads 
Your hand is not up, Mr. Thomas! trilled Professor Umbridge.
Now, it is the view of the Ministry that a theoretical knowledge will
be more than sufficient to get you through your examination, which,
after all, is what school is all about. And your name is? she added,
staring at Parvati, whose hand had just shot up.


CHAPTER TWELVE
Parvati Patil, and isnt there a practical bit in our Defense Against
the Dark Arts O.W.L.? Arent we supposed to show that we can actu
ally do the countercurses and things?
As long as you have studied the theory hard enough, there is no
reason why you should not be able to perform the spells under care
fully controlled examination conditions, said Professor Umbridge
dismissively.
Without ever practicing them before? said Parvati incredulously.
Are you telling us that the first time well get to do the spells will be
during our exam?
I repeat, as long as you have studied the theory hard enough 
And what goods theory going to be in the real world? said Harry
loudly, his fist in the air again.
Professor Umbridge looked up.
This is school, Mr. Potter, not the real world, she said softly.
So were not supposed to be prepared for whats waiting out
there?
There is nothing waiting out there, Mr. Potter.
Oh yeah? said Harry. His temper, which seemed to have been
bubbling just beneath the surface all day, was reaching boiling point.
Who do you imagine wants to attack children like yourselves?
inquired Professor Umbridge in a horribly honeyed voice.
Hmm, lets think . . . said Harry in a mock thoughtful voice,
maybe Lord Voldemort?
Ron gasped Lavender Brown uttered a little scream Neville
slipped sideways off his stool. Professor Umbridge, however, did not
flinch. She was staring at Harry with a grimly satisfied expression on
her face.
Ten points from Gryffindor, Mr. Potter.
The classroom was silent and still. Everyone was staring at either
Umbridge or Harry.
Now, let me make a few things quite plain.


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
Professor Umbridge stood up and leaned toward them, her stubby
fingered hands splayed on her desk.
You have been told that a certain Dark wizard has returned from
the dead 
He wasnt dead, said Harry angrily, but yeah, hes returned!
Mr.PotteryouhavealreadylostyourHousetenpointsdonot
makemattersworseforyourself, said Professor Umbridge in one
breath without looking at him. As I was saying, you have been in
formed that a certain Dark wizard is at large once again. This is a lie.
It is NOT a lie! said Harry. I saw him, I fought him!
Detention, Mr. Potter! said Professor Umbridge triumphantly.
Tomorrow evening. Five oclock. My office. I repeat, this is a lie. The
Ministry of Magic guarantees that you are not in danger from any
Dark wizard. If you are still worried, by all means come and see me
outside class hours. If someone is alarming you with fibs about reborn
Dark wizards, I would like to hear about it. I am here to help. I am
your friend. And now, you will kindly continue your reading. Page
five, Basics for Beginners. 
Professor Umbridge sat down behind her desk again. Harry, how
ever, stood up. Everyone was staring at him Seamus looked half
scared, halffascinated.
Harry, no! Hermione whispered in a warning voice, tugging at
his sleeve, but Harry jerked his arm out of her reach.
So, according to you, Cedric Diggory dropped dead of his own
accord, did he? Harry asked, his voice shaking.
There was a collective intake of breath from the class, for none of
them, apart from Ron and Hermione, had ever heard Harry talk
about what had happened on the night that Cedric had died. They
stared avidly from Harry to Professor Umbridge, who had raised her
eyes and was staring at him without a trace of a fake smile on her face.
Cedric Diggorys death was a tragic accident, she said coldly.
It was murder, said Harry. He could feel himself shaking. He had


CHAPTER TWELVE
hardly talked to anyone about this, least of all thirty eagerly listening
classmates. Voldemort killed him, and you know it.
Professor Umbridges face was quite blank. For a moment he
thought she was going to scream at him. Then she said, in her softest,
most sweetly girlish voice, Come here, Mr. Potter, dear.
He kicked his chair aside, strode around Ron and Hermione and
up to the teachers desk. He could feel the rest of the class holding its
breath. He felt so angry he did not care what happened next.
Professor Umbridge pulled a small roll of pink parchment out of
her handbag, stretched it out on the desk, dipped her quill into a bot
tle of ink, and started scribbling, hunched over so that Harry could
not see what she was writing. Nobody spoke. After a minute or so she
rolled up the parchment and tapped it with her wand it sealed itself
seamlessly so that he could not open it.
Take this to Professor McGonagall, dear, said Professor Um
bridge, holding out the note to him.
He took it from her without saying a word and left the room, not
even looking back at Ron and Hermione, and slamming the class
room door shut behind him. He walked very fast along the corridor,
the note to McGonagall clutched tight in his hand, and turning a cor
ner walked slap into Peeves the Poltergeist, a widefaced little man
floating on his back in midair, juggling several inkwells.
Why, its Potty Wee Potter! cackled Peeves, allowing two of the
inkwells to fall to the ground where they smashed and spattered the
walls with ink Harry jumped backward out of the way with a snarl.
Get out of it, Peeves.
Oooh, Crackpots feeling cranky, said Peeves, pursuing Harry
along the corridor, leering as he zoomed along above him. What is it
this time, my fine Potty friend? Hearing voices? Seeing visions? Speak
ing in  Peeves blew a gigantic raspberry  tongues?
I said, leave me ALONE! Harry shouted, running down the


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
nearest flight of stairs, but Peeves merely slid down the banister on his
back beside him.
Oh, most think hes barking, the Potty wee lad,
But some are more kindly and think hes just sad,
But Peevesy knows better and says that hes mad 
SHUT UP!
A door to his left flew open and Professor McGonagall emerged
from her office looking grim and slightly harassed.
What on earth are you shouting about, Potter? she snapped, as
Peeves cackled gleefully and zoomed out of sight. Why arent you in
class?
Ive been sent to see you, said Harry stiffly.
Sent? What do you mean, sent?
He held out the note from Professor Umbridge. Professor McGo
nagall took it from him, frowning, slit it open with a tap of her wand,
stretched it out, and began to read. Her eyes zoomed from side to side
behind their square spectacles as she read what Umbridge had written,
and with each line they became narrower.
Come in here, Potter.
He followed her inside her study. The door closed automatically
behind him.
Well? said Professor McGonagall, rounding on him. Is this
true?
Is what true? Harry asked, rather more aggressively than he had
intended. Professor? he added in an attempt to sound more polite.
Is it true that you shouted at Professor Umbridge?
Yes, said Harry.
You called her a liar?
Yes.


CHAPTER TWELVE
You told her HeWhoMustNotBeNamed is back?
Yes.
Professor McGonagall sat down behind her desk, frowning at Harry.
Then she said, Have a biscuit, Potter.
Have  what?
Have a biscuit, she repeated impatiently, indicating a tartan tin of
cookies lying on top of one of the piles of papers on her desk. And sit
down.
There had been a previous occasion when Harry, expecting to be
caned by Professor McGonagall, had instead been appointed by her to
the Gryffindor Quidditch team. He sank into a chair opposite her and
helped himself to a Ginger Newt, feeling just as confused and wrong
footed as he had done on that occasion.
Professor McGonagall set down Professor Umbridges note and
looked very seriously at Harry.
Potter, you need to be careful.
Harry swallowed his mouthful of Ginger Newt and stared at her.
Her tone of voice was not at all what he was used to it was not brisk,
crisp, and stern it was low and anxious and somehow much more hu
man than usual.
Misbehavior in Dolores Umbridges class could cost you much
more than House points and a detention.
What do you  ?
Potter, use your common sense, snapped Professor McGonagall,
with an abrupt return to her usual manner. You know where she
comes from, you must know to whom she is reporting.
The bell rang for the end of the lesson. Overhead and all around
came the elephantine sounds of hundreds of students on the move.
It says here shes given you detention every evening this week,
starting tomorrow, Professor McGonagall said, looking down at Um
bridges note again.


PROFESSOR UMBRIDGE
Every evening this week! Harry repeated, horrified. But, Profes
sor, couldnt you  ?
No, I couldnt, said Professor McGonagall flatly.
But 
She is your teacher and has every right to give you detention. You
will go to her room at five oclock tomorrow for the first one. Just re
member Tread carefully around Dolores Umbridge.
But I was telling the truth! said Harry, outraged. Voldemorts
back, you know he is, Professor Dumbledore knows he is 
For heavens sake, Potter! said Professor McGonagall, straighten
ing her glasses angrily she had winced horribly when he had used
Voldemorts name. Do you really think this is about truth or lies? Its
about keeping your head down and your temper under control!
She stood up, nostrils wide and mouth very thin, and he stood too.
Have another biscuit, she said irritably, thrusting the tin at him.
No, thanks, said Harry coldly.
Dont be ridiculous, she snapped.
He took one.
Thanks, he said grudgingly.
Didnt you listen to Dolores Umbridges speech at the startof
term feast, Potter?
Yeah, said Harry. Yeah . . . she said . . . progress will be prohib
ited or . . . well, it meant that . . . that the Ministry of Magic is trying
to interfere at Hogwarts.
Professor McGonagall eyed him for a moment, then sniffed,
walked around her desk, and held open the door for him.
Well, Im glad you listen to Hermione Granger at any rate, she
said, pointing him out of her office.


C H A P T E R T H I R T E E N
DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
D
inner in the Great Hall that night was not a pleasant experi
ence for Harry. The news about his shouting match with
Umbridge seemed to have traveled exceptionally fast even by Hog
warts standards. He heard whispers all around him as he sat eating
between Ron and Hermione. The funny thing was that none of the
whisperers seemed to mind him overhearing what they were saying
about him  on the contrary, it was as though they were hoping he
would get angry and start shouting again, so that they could hear his
story firsthand.
He says he saw Cedric Diggory murdered. . . .
He reckons he dueled with YouKnowWho. . . .
Come off it. . . .
Who does he think hes kidding?
Purlease . . .
What I dont get, said Harry in a shaking voice, laying down his
knife and fork his hands were trembling too much to hold them
steady, is why they all believed the story two months ago when
Dumbledore told them. . . .


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
The thing is, Harry, Im not sure they did, said Hermione
grimly. Oh, lets get out of here.
She slammed down her own knife and fork Ron looked sadly at his
halffinished apple pie but followed suit. People stared at them all the
way out of the Hall.
What dyou mean, youre not sure they believed Dumbledore?
Harry asked Hermione when they reached the firstfloor landing.
Look, you dont understand what it was like after it happened,
said Hermione quietly. You arrived back in the middle of the lawn
clutching Cedrics dead body. . . . None of us saw what happened in
the maze. . . . We just had Dumbledores word for it that YouKnow
Who had come back and killed Cedric and fought you.
Which is the truth! said Harry loudly.
I know it is, Harry, so will you please stop biting my head off?
said Hermione wearily. Its just that before the truth could sink in,
everyone went home for the summer, where they spent two months
reading about how youre a nutcase and Dumbledores going senile!
Rain pounded on the windowpanes as they strode along the empty
corridors back to Gryffindor Tower. Harry felt as though his first day
had lasted a week, but he still had a mountain of homework to do be
fore bed. A dull pounding pain was developing over his right eye. He
glanced out of a rainwashed window at the dark grounds as they turned
into the Fat Ladys corridor. There was still no light in Hagrids cabin.
Mimbulus mimbletonia, said Hermione, before the Fat Lady
could ask. The portrait swung open to reveal the hole behind and the
three of them scrambled back through it.
The common room was almost empty nearly everyone was still
down at dinner. Crookshanks uncoiled himself from an armchair and
trotted to meet them, purring loudly, and when Harry, Ron, and
Hermione took their three favorite chairs at the fireside he leapt
lightly into Hermiones lap and curled up there like a furry ginger
cushion. Harry gazed into the flames, feeling drained and exhausted.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
How can Dumbledore have let this happen? Hermione cried sud
denly, making Harry and Ron jump Crookshanks leapt off her, look
ing affronted. She pounded the arms of her chair in fury, so that bits
of stuffing leaked out of the holes. How can he let that terrible
woman teach us? And in our O.W.L. year too!
Well, weve never had great Defense Against the Dark Arts teach
ers, have we? said Harry. You know what its like, Hagrid told us,
nobody wants the job, they say its jinxed.
Yes, but to employ someone whos actually refusing to let us do
magic! Whats Dumbledore playing at?
And shes trying to get people to spy for her, said Ron darkly. Re
member when she said she wanted us to come and tell her if we hear
anyone saying YouKnowWhos back?
Of course shes here to spy on us all, thats obvious, why else would
Fudge have wanted her to come? snapped Hermione.
Dont start arguing again, said Harry wearily, as Ron opened his
mouth to retaliate. Cant we just . . . Lets just do that homework, get
it out of the way. . . .
They collected their schoolbags from a corner and returned to the
chairs by the fire. People were coming back from dinner now. Harry
kept his face averted from the portrait hole, but could still sense the
stares he was attracting.
Shall we do Snapes stuff first? said Ron, dipping his quill into
his ink.   The properties . . . of moonstone . . . and its uses . . . in potion
making . . .  he muttered, writing the words across the top of his
parchment as he spoke them. There. He underlined the title, then
looked up expectantly at Hermione.
So what are the properties of moonstone and its uses in potion
making?
But Hermione was not listening she was squinting over into the far
corner of the room, where Fred, George, and Lee Jordan were now sit
ting at the center of a knot of innocentlooking first years, all of whom


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
were chewing something that seemed to have come out of a large pa
per bag that Fred was holding.
No, Im sorry, theyve gone too far, she said, standing up and
looking positively furious. Come on, Ron.
I  what? said Ron, plainly playing for time. No  come on,
Hermione  we cant tell them off for giving out sweets. . . .
You know perfectly well that those are bits of Nosebleed Nougat
or  or Puking Pastilles or 
Fainting Fancies? Harry suggested quietly.
One by one, as though hit over the heads with invisible mallets, the
first years were slumping unconscious in their seats some slid right
onto the floor, others merely hung over the arms of their chairs, their
tongues lolling out. Most of the people watching were laughing Her
mione, however, squared her shoulders and marched directly over to
where Fred and George now stood with clipboards, closely observing
the unconscious first years. Ron rose halfway out of his chair, hovered
uncertainly for a moment or two, then muttered to Harry, Shes got
it under control, before sinking as low in his chair as his lanky frame
permitted.
Thats enough! Hermione said forcefully to Fred and George,
both of whom looked up in mild surprise.
Yeah, youre right, said George, nodding, this dosage looks
strong enough, doesnt it?
I told you this morning, you cant test your rubbish on students!
Were paying them! said Fred indignantly.
I dont care, it could be dangerous!
Rubbish, said Fred.
Calm down, Hermione, theyre fine! said Lee reassuringly as he
walked from first year to first year, inserting purple sweets into their
open mouths.
Yeah, look, theyre coming round now, said George.
A few of the first years were indeed stirring. Several looked so


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
shocked to find themselves lying on the floor, or dangling off their
chairs, that Harry was sure Fred and George had not warned them
what the sweets were going to do.
Feel all right? said George kindly to a small darkhaired girl lying
at his feet.
II think so, she said shakily.
Excellent, said Fred happily, but the next second Hermione had
snatched both his clipboard and the paper bag of Fainting Fancies
from his hands.
It is NOT excellent!
 Course it is, theyre alive, arent they? said Fred angrily.
You cant do this, what if you made one of them really ill?
Were not going to make them ill, weve already tested them all on
ourselves, this is just to see if everyone reacts the same 
If you dont stop doing it, Im going to 
Put us in detention? said Fred in an Idliketoseeyoutryit voice.
Make us write lines? said George, smirking.
Onlookers all over the room were laughing. Hermione drew herself
up to her full height her eyes were narrowed and her bushy hair
seemed to crackle with electricity.
No, she said, her voice quivering with anger, but I will write to
your mother.
You wouldnt, said George, horrified, taking a step back from her.
Oh, yes, I would, said Hermione grimly. I cant stop you eating
the stupid things yourselves, but youre not giving them to first years.
Fred and George looked thunderstruck. It was clear that as far as
they were concerned, Hermiones threat was way below the belt. With
a last threatening look at them, she thrust Freds clipboard and the bag
of Fancies back into his arms and stalked back to her chair by the fire.
Ron was now so low in his seat that his nose was roughly level with
his knees.


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
Thank you for your support, Ron, Hermione said acidly.
You handled it fine by yourself, Ron mumbled.
Hermione stared down at her blank piece of parchment for a few
seconds, then said edgily, Oh, its no good, I cant concentrate now.
Im going to bed.
She wrenched her bag open Harry thought she was about to put
her books away, but instead she pulled out two misshapen woolly ob
jects, placed them carefully on a table by the fireplace, covered them
with a few screwedup bits of parchment and a broken quill, and
stood back to admire the effect.
What in the name of Merlin are you doing? said Ron, watching
her as though fearful for her sanity.
Theyre hats for houseelves, she said briskly, now stuffing her
books back into her bag. I did them over the summer. Im a really
slow knitter without magic, but now Im back at school I should be
able to make lots more.
Youre leaving out hats for the houseelves? said Ron slowly. And
youre covering them up with rubbish first?
Yes, said Hermione defiantly, swinging her bag onto her back.
Thats not on, said Ron angrily. Youre trying to trick them into
picking up the hats. Youre setting them free when they might not
want to be free.
Of course they want to be free! said Hermione at once, though
her face was turning pink. Dont you dare touch those hats, Ron!
She left. Ron waited until she had disappeared through the door to
the girls dormitories, then cleared the rubbish off the woolly hats.
They should at least see what theyre picking up, he said firmly.
Anyway . . . He rolled up the parchment on which he had written
the title of Snapes essay. Theres no point trying to finish this now, I
cant do it without Hermione, I havent got a clue what youre sup
posed to do with moonstones, have you?


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Harry shook his head, noticing as he did so that the ache in his
right temple was getting worse. He thought of the long essay on giant
wars and the pain stabbed at him sharply. Knowing perfectly well that
he would regret not finishing his homework tonight when the morn
ing came, he piled his books back into his bag.
Im going to bed too.
He passed Seamus on the way to the door leading to the dormi
tories, but did not look at him. Harry had a fleeting impression that
Seamus had opened his mouth to speak, but sped up, and reached the
soothing peace of the stone spiral staircase without having to endure
any more provocation.
The following day dawned just as leaden and rainy as the previous
one. Hagrid was still absent from the staff table at breakfast.
But on the plus side, no Snape today, said Ron bracingly.
Hermione yawned widely and poured herself some coffee. She
looked mildly pleased about something, and when Ron asked her
what she had to be so happy about, she simply said, The hats have
gone. Seems the houseelves do want freedom after all.
I wouldnt bet on it, Ron told her cuttingly. They might not
count as clothes. They didnt look anything like hats to me, more like
woolly bladders.
Hermione did not speak to him all morning.
Double Charms was succeeded by double Transfiguration. Profes
sor Flitwick and Professor McGonagall both spent the first fifteen
minutes of their lessons lecturing the class on the importance of
O.W.L.s.
What you must remember, said little Professor Flitwick squeak
ily, perched as ever on a pile of books so that he could see over the top
of his desk, is that these examinations may influence your futures for
many years to come! If you have not already given serious thought to
your careers, now is the time to do so. And in the meantime, Im


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
afraid, we shall be working harder than ever to ensure that you all do
yourselves justice!
They then spent more than an hour reviewing Summoning Charms,
which according to Professor Flitwick were bound to come up in their
O.W.L., and he rounded off the lesson by setting them their largest
amount of Charms homework ever.
It was the same, if not worse, in Transfiguration.
You cannot pass an O.W.L., said Professor McGonagall grimly,
without serious application, practice, and study. I see no reason why
everybody in this class should not achieve an O.W.L. in Transfiguration
as long as they put in the work. Neville made a sad little disbeliev
ing noise. Yes, you too, Longbottom, said Professor McGonagall.
Theres nothing wrong with your work except lack of confidence. So
. . . today we are starting Vanishing Spells. These are easier than Con
juring Spells, which you would not usually attempt until N.E.W.T.
level, but they are still among the most difficult magic you will be
tested on in your O.W.L.
She was quite right Harry found the Vanishing Spells horribly dif
ficult. By the end of a double period, neither he nor Ron had managed
to vanish the snails on which they were practicing, though Ron said
hopefully that he thought his looked a bit paler. Hermione, on the
other hand, successfully vanished her snail on the third attempt, earn
ing her a tenpoint bonus for Gryffindor from Professor McGonagall.
She was the only person not given homework everybody else was told
to practice the spell overnight, ready for a fresh attempt on their snails
the following afternoon.
Now panicking slightly about the amount of homework they had
to do, Harry and Ron spent their lunch hour in the library looking up
the uses of moonstones in potionmaking. Still angry about Rons slur
on her woolly hats, Hermione did not join them. By the time they
reached Care of Magical Creatures in the afternoon, Harrys head was
aching again.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
The day had become cool and breezy, and, as they walked down
the sloping lawn toward Hagrids cabin on the edge of the Forbidden
Forest, they felt the occasional drop of rain on their faces. Professor
GrubblyPlank stood waiting for the class some ten yards from Ha
grids front door, a long trestle table in front of her laden with many
twigs. As Harry and Ron reached her, a loud shout of laughter
sounded behind them turning, they saw Draco Malfoy striding to
ward them, surrounded by his usual gang of Slytherin cronies. He had
clearly just said something highly amusing, because Crabbe, Goyle,
Pansy Parkinson, and the rest continued to snigger heartily as they
gathered around the trestle table. Judging by the fact that all of them
kept looking over at Harry, he was able to guess the subject of the joke
without too much difficulty.
Everyone here? barked Professor GrubblyPlank, once all the
Slytherins and Gryffindors had arrived. Lets crack on then  who
can tell me what these things are called?
She indicated the heap of twigs in front of her. Hermiones hand
shot into the air. Behind her back, Malfoy did a bucktoothed imita
tion of her jumping up and down in eagerness to answer a question.
Pansy Parkinson gave a shriek of laughter that turned almost at once
into a scream, as the twigs on the table leapt into the air and revealed
themselves to be what looked like tiny pixieish creatures made of
wood, each with knobbly brown arms and legs, two twiglike fingers at
the end of each hand, and a funny, flat, barklike face in which a pair
of beetlebrown eyes glittered.
Oooooh! said Parvati and Lavender, thoroughly irritating Harry
Anyone would have thought that Hagrid never showed them impres
sive creatures admittedly the flobberworms had been a bit dull, but
the salamanders and hippogriffs had been interesting enough, and the
BlastEnded Skrewts perhaps too much so.
Kindly keep your voices down, girls! said Professor Grubbly
Plank sharply, scattering a handful of what looked like brown rice


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
among the stickcreatures, who immediately fell upon the food.
So  anyone know the names of these creatures? Miss Granger?
Bowtruckles, said Hermione. Theyre treeguardians, usually
live in wandtrees.
Five points for Gryffindor, said Professor GrubblyPlank. Yes, these
are bowtruckles and, as Miss Granger rightly says, they generally live in
trees whose wood is of wand quality. Anybody know what they eat?
Wood lice, said Hermione promptly, which explained why what
Harry had taken for grains of brown rice were moving. But fairy eggs
if they can get them.
Good girl, take another five points. So whenever you need leaves
or wood from a tree in which a bowtruckle lodges, it is wise to have a
gift of wood lice ready to distract or placate it. They may not look
dangerous, but if angered they will gouge out human eyes with their
fingers, which, as you can see, are very sharp and not at all desirable
near the eyeballs. So if youd like to gather closer, take a few wood lice
and a bowtruckle  I have enough here for one between three  you
can study them more closely. I want a sketch from each of you with all
body parts labeled by the end of the lesson.
The class surged forward around the trestle table. Harry deliberately
circled around the back so that he ended up right next to Professor
GrubblyPlank.
Wheres Hagrid? he asked her, while everyone else was choosing
bowtruckles.
Never you mind, said Professor GrubblyPlank repressively,
which had been her attitude last time Hagrid had failed to turn up for
a class too. Smirking all over his pointed face, Draco Malfoy leaned
across Harry and seized the largest bowtruckle.
Maybe, said Malfoy in an undertone, so that only Harry could
hear him, the stupid great oaf s got himself badly injured.
Maybe you will if you dont shut up, said Harry out of the side of
his mouth.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Maybe hes been messing with stuff thats too big for him, if you
get my drift.
Malfoy walked away, smirking over his shoulder at Harry, who sud
denly felt sick. Did Malfoy know something? His father was a Death
Eater, after all what if he had information about Hagrids fate that
had not yet reached the Orders ears? He hurried back around the
table to Ron and Hermione, who were squatting on the grass some
distance away and attempting to persuade a bowtruckle to remain still
long enough to draw it. Harry pulled out parchment and quill,
crouched down beside the others, and related in a whisper what Mal
foy had just said.
Dumbledore would know if something had happened to Hagrid,
said Hermione at once. Its just playing into Malfoys hands to look
worried, it tells him we dont know exactly whats going on. Weve got
to ignore him, Harry. Here, hold the bowtruckle for a moment, just
so I can draw its face. . . .
Yes, came Malfoys clear drawl from the group nearest them,
Father was talking to the Minister just a couple of days ago, you
know, and it sounds as though the Ministrys really determined to
crack down on substandard teaching in this place. So even if that over
grown moron does show up again, hell probably be sent packing
straight away.
OUCH!
Harry had gripped the bowtruckle so hard that it had almost
snapped it had just taken a great retaliatory swipe at his hand with its
sharp fingers, leaving two long deep cuts there. Harry dropped it
Crabbe and Goyle, who had already been guffawing at the idea of Ha
grid being sacked, laughed still harder as the bowtruckle set off at full
tilt toward the forest, a little, moving stickman soon swallowed up by
the tree roots. When the bell echoed distantly over the grounds Harry
rolled up his bloodstained bowtruckle picture and marched off to


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
Herbology with his hand wrapped in a handkerchief of Hermiones
and Malfoys derisive laughter still ringing in his ears.
If he calls Hagrid a moron one more time . . . snarled Harry.
Harry, dont go picking a row with Malfoy, dont forget, hes a pre
fect now, he could make life difficult for you. . . .
Wow, I wonder what itd be like to have a difficult life? said Harry
sarcastically. Ron laughed, but Hermione frowned. Together they
traipsed across the vegetable patch. The sky still appeared unable to
make up its mind whether it wanted to rain or not.
I just wish Hagrid would hurry up and get back, thats all, said
Harry in a low voice, as they reached the greenhouses. And dont say
that GrubblyPlank womans a better teacher! he added threateningly.
I wasnt going to, said Hermione calmly.
Because shell never be as good as Hagrid, said Harry firmly, fully
aware that he had just experienced an exemplary Care of Magical
Creatures lesson and was thoroughly annoyed about it.
The door of the nearest greenhouse opened and some fourth years
spilled out of it, including Ginny.
Hi, she said brightly as she passed. A few seconds later, Luna
Lovegood emerged, trailing behind the rest of the class, a smudge of
earth on her nose and her hair tied in a knot on the top of her head.
When she saw Harry, her prominent eyes seemed to bulge excitedly
and she made a beeline straight for him. Many of his classmates
turned curiously to watch. Luna took a great breath and then said,
without so much as a preliminary hello I believe HeWhoMust
NotBeNamed is back, and I believe you fought him and escaped
from him.
Er  right, said Harry awkwardly. Luna was wearing what
looked like a pair of orange radishes for earrings, a fact that Parvati
and Lavender seemed to have noticed, as they were both giggling and
pointing at her earlobes.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
You can laugh! Luna said, her voice rising, apparently under the
impression that Parvati and Lavender were laughing at what she had
said rather than what she was wearing. But people used to believe there
were no such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the Crumple
Horned Snorkack!
Well, they were right, werent they? said Hermione impatiently.
There werent any such things as the Blibbering Humdinger or the
CrumpleHorned Snorkack.
Luna gave her a withering look and flounced away, radishes swing
ing madly. Parvati and Lavender were not the only ones hooting with
laughter now.
Dyou mind not offending the only people who believe me?
Harry asked Hermione as they made their way into class.
Oh, for heavens sake, Harry, you can do better than her, said
Hermione. Ginnys told me all about her, apparently shell only be
lieve in things as long as theres no proof at all. Well, I wouldnt expect
anything else from someone whose father runs The Quibbler.
Harry thought of the sinister winged horses he had seen on the
night he had arrived and how Luna had said she could see them too.
His spirits sank slightly. Had she been lying? But before he could de
vote much more thought to the matter, Ernie Macmillan had stepped
up to him.
I want you to know, Potter, he said in a loud, carrying voice, that
its not only weirdos who support you. I personally believe you one
hundred percent. My family have always stood firm behind Dumble
dore, and so do I.
Er  thanks very much, Ernie, said Harry, taken aback but
pleased. Ernie might be pompous on occasions like these, but Harry
was in a mood to deeply appreciate a vote of confidence from some
body who was not wearing radishes in their ears. Ernies words had
certainly wiped the smile from Lavender Browns face and, as he


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
turned to talk to Ron and Hermione, Harry caught Seamuss expres
sion, which looked both confused and defiant.
To nobodys surprise, Professor Sprout started their lesson by lec
turing them about the importance of O.W.L.s. Harry wished all the
teachers would stop doing this he was starting to get an anxious,
twisted feeling in his stomach every time he remembered how much
homework he had to do, a feeling that worsened dramatically when
Professor Sprout gave them yet another essay at the end of class. Tired
and smelling strongly of dragon dung, Professor Sprouts preferred
brand of fertilizer, the Gryffindors trooped back up to the castle an
hour and a half later, none of them talking very much it had been an
other long day.
As Harry was starving, and he had his first detention with Um
bridge at five oclock, he headed straight for dinner without dropping
off his bag in Gryffindor Tower so that he could bolt something down
before facing whatever she had in store for him. He had barely reached
the entrance of the Great Hall, however, when a loud and angry voice
said, Oy, Potter!
What now? he muttered wearily, turning to face Angelina John
son, who looked as though she was in a towering temper.
Ill tell you what now, she said, marching straight up to him and
poking him hard in the chest with her finger. How come youve
landed yourself in detention for five oclock on Friday?
What? said Harry. Why . . . oh yeah, Keeper tryouts!
Now he remembers! snarled Angelina. Didnt I tell you I wanted
to do a tryout with the whole team, and find someone who fitted in
with everyone? Didnt I tell you Id booked the Quidditch pitch spe
cially? And now youve decided youre not going to be there!
I didnt decide not to be there! said Harry, stung by the injustice
of these words. I got detention from that Umbridge woman, just be
cause I told her the truth about YouKnowWho 


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Well, you can just go straight to her and ask her to let you off on
Friday, said Angelina fiercely, and I dont care how you do it, tell her
YouKnowWhos a figment of your imagination if you like, just make
sure youre there!
She stormed away.
You know what? Harry said to Ron and Hermione as they en
tered the Great Hall. I think wed better check with Puddlemere
United whether Oliver Woods been killed during a training session,
because she seems to be channeling his spirit.
What dyou reckon are the odds of Umbridge letting you off on
Friday? said Ron skeptically, as they sat down at the Gryffindor table.
Less than zero, said Harry glumly, tipping lamb chops onto his
plate and starting to eat. Better try, though, hadnt I? Ill offer to do
two more detentions or something, I dunno. . . . He swallowed a
mouthful of potato and added, I hope she doesnt keep me too long
this evening. You realize weve got to write three essays, practice Van
ishing Spells for McGonagall, work out a countercharm for Flitwick,
finish the bowtruckle drawing, and start that stupid dream diary for
Trelawney?
Ron moaned and for some reason glanced up at the ceiling.
And it looks like its going to rain.
Whats that got to do with our homework? said Hermione, her
eyebrows raised.
Nothing, said Ron at once, his ears reddening.
At five to five Harry bade the other two goodbye and set off for
Umbridges office on the third floor. When he knocked on the door
she said, Come in, in a sugary voice. He entered cautiously, looking
around.
He had known this office under three of its previous occupants. In
the days when Gilderoy Lockhart had lived here it had been plastered
in beaming portraits of its owner. When Lupin had occupied it, it was
likely you would meet some fascinating Dark creature in a cage or


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
tank if you came to call. In the impostor Moodys days it had been
packed with various instruments and artifacts for the detection of
wrongdoing and concealment.
Now, however, it looked totally unrecognizable. The surfaces had
all been draped in lacy covers and cloths. There were several vases full
of dried flowers, each residing on its own doily, and on one of the
walls was a collection of ornamental plates, each decorated with a
large technicolor kitten wearing a different bow around its neck.
These were so foul that Harry stared at them, transfixed, until Profes
sor Umbridge spoke again.
Good evening, Mr. Potter.
Harry started and looked around. He had not noticed her at first
because she was wearing a luridly flowered set of robes that blended
only too well with the tablecloth on the desk behind her.
Evening, Harry said stiffly.
Well, sit down, she said, pointing toward a small table draped in
lace beside which she had drawn up a straightbacked chair. A piece of
blank parchment lay on the table, apparently waiting for him.
Er, said Harry, without moving. Professor Umbridge? Er 
before we start, II wanted to ask you a . . . a favor.
Her bulging eyes narrowed.
Oh yes?
Well Im . . . Im on the Gryffindor Quidditch team. And I was
supposed to be at the tryouts for the new Keeper at five oclock on Fri
day and I was  was wondering whether I could skip detention that
night and do it  do it another night . . . instead . . .
He knew long before he reached the end of his sentence that it was
no good.
Oh no, said Umbridge, smiling so widely that she looked as
though she had just swallowed a particularly juicy fly. Oh no, no, no.
This is your punishment for spreading evil, nasty, attentionseeking
stories, Mr. Potter, and punishments certainly cannot be adjusted to


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
suit the guilty ones convenience. No, you will come here at five
oclock tomorrow, and the next day, and on Friday too, and you will
do your detentions as planned. I think it rather a good thing that you
are missing something you really want to do. It ought to reinforce the
lesson I am trying to teach you.
Harry felt the blood surge to his head and heard a thumping noise
in his ears. So he told evil, nasty, attentionseeking stories, did he?
She was watching him with her head slightly to one side, still smil
ing widely, as though she knew exactly what he was thinking and was
waiting to see whether he would start shouting again. With a massive
effort Harry looked away from her, dropped his schoolbag beside the
straightbacked chair, and sat down.
There, said Umbridge sweetly, were getting better at controlling
our temper already, arent we? Now, you are going to be doing some
lines for me, Mr. Potter. No, not with your quill, she added, as Harry
bent down to open his bag. Youre going to be using a rather special
one of mine. Here you are.
She handed him a long, thin black quill with an unusually sharp
point.
I want you to write  I must not tell lies,  she told him softly.
How many times? Harry asked, with a creditable imitation of
politeness.
Oh, as long as it takes for the message to sink in, said Umbridge
sweetly. Off you go.
She moved over to her desk, sat down, and bent over a stack of
parchment that looked like essays for marking. Harry raised the sharp
black quill and then realized what was missing.
You havent given me any ink, he said.
Oh, you wont need ink, said Professor Umbridge with the mer
est suggestion of a laugh in her voice.
Harry placed the point of the quill on the paper and wrote I must
not tell lies.


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
He let out a gasp of pain. The words had appeared on the parch
ment in what appeared to be shining red ink. At the same time, the
words had appeared on the back of Harrys right hand, cut into his
skin as though traced there by a scalpel  yet even as he stared at the
shining cut, the skin healed over again, leaving the place where it had
been slightly redder than before but quite smooth.
Harry looked around at Umbridge. She was watching him, her
wide, toadlike mouth stretched in a smile.
Yes?
Nothing, said Harry quietly.
He looked back at the parchment, placed the quill upon it once
more, wrote I must not tell lies, and felt the searing pain on the back of
his hand for a second time once again the words had been cut into his
skin, once again they healed over seconds later.
And on it went. Again and again Harry wrote the words on the
parchment in what he soon came to realize was not ink, but his own
blood. And again and again the words were cut into the back of his
hand, healed, and then reappeared the next time he set quill to
parchment.
Darkness fell outside Umbridges window. Harry did not ask when
he would be allowed to stop. He did not even check his watch. He
knew she was watching him for signs of weakness and he was not go
ing to show any, not even if he had to sit here all night, cutting open
his own hand with this quill. . . .
Come here, she said, after what seemed hours.
He stood up. His hand was stinging painfully. When he looked
down at it he saw that the cut had healed, but that the skin there was
red raw.
Hand, she said.
He extended it. She took it in her own. Harry repressed a shudder
as she touched him with her thick, stubby fingers on which she wore
a number of ugly old rings.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Tut, tut, I dont seem to have made much of an impression yet,
she said, smiling. Well, well just have to try again tomorrow
evening, wont we? You may go.
Harry left her office without a word. The school was quite deserted
it was surely past midnight. He walked slowly up the corridor then,
when he had turned the corner and was sure that she would not hear
him, broke into a run.
He had not had time to practice Vanishing Spells, had not written a
single dream in his dream diary, and had not finished the drawing of
the bowtruckle, nor had he written his essays. He skipped breakfast
next morning to scribble down a couple of madeup dreams for Div
ination, their first lesson, and was surprised to find a disheveled Ron
keeping him company.
How come you didnt do it last night? Harry asked, as Ron stared
wildly around the common room for inspiration. Ron, who had been
fast asleep when Harry got back to the dormitory, muttered some
thing about doing other stuff, bent low over his parchment, and
scrawled a few words.
Thatll have to do, he said, slamming the diary shut, Ive said I
dreamed I was buying a new pair of shoes, she cant make anything
weird out of that, can she?
They hurried off to North Tower together.
How was detention with Umbridge, anyway? What did she make
you do?
Harry hesitated for a fraction of a second, then said, Lines.
Thats not too bad, then, eh? said Ron.
Nope, said Harry.
Hey  I forgot  did she let you off for Friday?
No, said Harry.
Ron groaned sympathetically.
It was another bad day for Harry he was one of the worst in Trans


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
figuration, not having practiced Vanishing Spells at all. He had to give
up his lunch hour to complete the picture of the bowtruckle, and
meanwhile, Professors McGonagall, GrubblyPlank, and Sinistra gave
them yet more homework, which he had no prospect of finishing that
evening because of his second detention with Umbridge. To cap it all,
Angelina Johnson tracked him down at dinner again and, on learning
that he would not be able to attend Fridays Keeper tryouts, told him
she was not at all impressed by his attitude and that she expected play
ers who wished to remain on the team to put training before their
other commitments.
Im in detention! Harry yelled after her as she stalked away.
Dyou think Id rather be stuck in a room with that old toad or play
ing Quidditch?
At least its only lines, said Hermione consolingly, as Harry sank
back onto his bench and looked down at his steakandkidney pie,
which he no longer fancied very much. Its not as if its a dreadful
punishment, really. . . .
Harry opened his mouth, closed it again, and nodded. He was not
really sure why he was not telling Ron and Hermione exactly what was
happening in Umbridges room He only knew that he did not want
to see their looks of horror that would make the whole thing seem
worse and therefore more difficult to face. He also felt dimly that this
was between himself and Umbridge, a private battle of wills, and he
was not going to give her the satisfaction of hearing that he had com
plained about it.
I cant believe how much homework weve got, said Ron
miserably.
Well, why didnt you do any last night? Hermione asked him.
Where were you anyway?
I was . . . I fancied a walk, said Ron shiftily.
Harry had the distinct impression that he was not alone in con
cealing things at the moment.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN



The second detention was just as bad as the previous one. The skin on
the back of Harrys hand became irritated more quickly now, red and
inflamed Harry thought it unlikely to keep healing as effectively for
long. Soon the cut would remain etched in his hand and Umbridge
would, perhaps, be satisfied. He let no moan of pain escape him, how
ever, and from the moment of entering the room to the moment of his
dismissal, again past midnight, he said nothing but Good evening
and Good night.
His homework situation, however, was now desperate, and when
he returned to the Gryffindor common room he did not, though ex
hausted, go to bed, but opened his books and began Snapes moon
stone essay. It was halfpast two by the time he had finished it. He
knew he had done a poor job, but there was no help for it unless he
had something to give in he would be in detention with Snape next.
He then dashed off answers to the questions Professor McGonagall
had set them, cobbled together something on the proper handling of
bowtruckles for Professor GrubblyPlank, and staggered up to bed,
where he fell fully clothed on top of the bed covers and fell asleep
immediately.
Thursday passed in a haze of tiredness. Ron seemed very sleepy too,
though Harry could not see why he should be. Harrys third detention
passed in the same way as the previous two, except that after two
hours the words I must not tell lies did not fade from the back of
Harrys hand, but remained scratched there, oozing droplets of blood.
The pause in the pointed quills scratching made Professor Umbridge
look up.
Ah, she said softly, moving around her desk to examine his hand
herself. Good. That ought to serve as a reminder to you, oughtnt it?
You may leave for tonight.


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
Do I still have to come back tomorrow? said Harry, picking up
his schoolbag with his left hand rather than his smarting right.
Oh yes, said Professor Umbridge, smiling widely as before. Yes,
I think we can etch the message a little deeper with another evenings
work.
He had never before considered the possibility that there might be
another teacher in the world he hated more than Snape, but as he
walked back toward Gryffindor Tower he had to admit he had found
a contender. Shes evil, he thought, as he climbed a staircase to the sev
enth floor, shes an evil, twisted, mad, old 
Ron?
He had reached the top of the stairs, turned right, and almost
walked into Ron, who was lurking behind a statue of Lachlan the
Lanky, clutching his broomstick. He gave a great leap of surprise
when he saw Harry and attempted to hide his new Cleansweep Eleven
behind his back.
What are you doing?
Er  nothing. What are you doing?
Harry frowned at him.
Come on, you can tell me! What are you hiding here for?
Im  Im hiding from Fred and George, if you must know, said
Ron. They just went past with a bunch of first years, I bet theyre
testing stuff on them again, I mean, they cant do it in the common
room now, can they, not with Hermione there.
He was talking in a very fast, feverish way.
But what have you got your broom for, you havent been flying,
have you? Harry asked.
I  well  well, okay, Ill tell you, but dont laugh, all right? Ron
said defensively, turning redder with every second. II thought Id try
out for Gryffindor Keeper now Ive got a decent broom. There. Go on.
Laugh.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Im not laughing, said Harry. Ron blinked. Its a brilliant idea!
Itd be really cool if you got on the team! Ive never seen you play
Keeper, are you good?
Im not bad, said Ron, who looked immensely relieved at Harrys
reaction. Charlie, Fred, and George always made me Keep for them
when they were training during the holidays.
So youve been practicing tonight?
Every evening since Tuesday . . . just on my own, though, Ive
been trying to bewitch Quaffles to fly at me, but it hasnt been easy
and I dont know how much use itll be. Ron looked nervous and
anxious. Fred and George are going to laugh themselves stupid when
I turn up for the tryouts. They havent stopped taking the mickey out
of me since I got made a prefect.
I wish I was going to be there, said Harry bitterly, as they set off
together toward the common room.
Yeah, so do  Harry, whats that on the back of your hand?
Harry, who had just scratched his nose with his free right hand,
tried to hide it, but had as much success as Ron with his Cleansweep.
Its just a cut  its nothing  its 
But Ron had grabbed Harrys forearm and pulled the back of
Harrys hand up level with his eyes. There was a pause, during which
he stared at the words carved into the skin, then he released Harry,
looking sick.
I thought you said she was giving you lines?
Harry hesitated, but after all, Ron had been honest with him, so he
told Ron the truth about the hours he had been spending in Um
bridges office.
The old hag! Ron said in a revolted whisper as they came to a halt
in front of the Fat Lady, who was dozing peacefully with her head
against her frame. Shes sick! Go to McGonagall, say something!
No, said Harry at once. Im not giving her the satisfaction of
knowing shes got to me.


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
Got to you? You cant let her get away with this!
I dont know how much power McGonagalls got over her, said
Harry.
Dumbledore, then, tell Dumbledore!
No, said Harry flatly.
Why not?
Hes got enough on his mind, said Harry, but that was not the
true reason. He was not going to go to Dumbledore for help when
Dumbledore had not spoken to him once since last June.
Well, I reckon you should  Ron began, but he was interrupted
by the Fat Lady, who had been watching them sleepily and now burst
out, Are you going to give me the password or will I have to stay
awake all night waiting for you to finish your conversation?
Friday dawned sullen and sodden as the rest of the week. Though
Harry glanced toward the staff table automatically when he entered
the Great Hall, it was without real hope of seeing Hagrid and he
turned his mind immediately to his more pressing problems, such as
the mountainous pile of homework he had to do and the prospect of
yet another detention with Umbridge.
Two things sustained Harry that day. One was the thought that it
was almost the weekend the other was that, dreadful though his final
detention with Umbridge was sure to be, he had a distant view of the
Quidditch pitch from her window and might, with luck, be able to
see something of Rons tryout. These were rather feeble rays of light, it
was true, but Harry was grateful for anything that might lighten his
present darkness he had never had a worse first week of term at
Hogwarts.
At five oclock that evening he knocked on Professor Umbridges
office door for what he sincerely hoped would be the final time, was
told to enter and did so. The blank parchment lay ready for him on
the lacecovered table, the pointed black quill beside it.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
You know what to do, Mr. Potter, said Umbridge, smiling
sweetly over at him.
Harry picked up the quill and glanced through the window. If he
just shifted his chair an inch or so to the right . . . On the pretext of
shifting himself closer to the table he managed it. He now had a dis
tant view of the Gryffindor Quidditch team soaring up and down the
pitch, while half a dozen black figures stood at the foot of the three
high goalposts, apparently awaiting their turn to Keep. It was impos
sible to tell which one was Ron at this distance.
I must not tell lies, Harry wrote. The cut in the back of his right
hand opened and began to bleed afresh.
I must not tell lies. The cut dug deeper, stinging and smarting.
I must not tell lies. Blood trickled down his wrist.
He chanced another glance out of the window. Whoever was de
fending the goalposts now was doing a very poor job indeed. Katie
Bell scored twice in the few seconds Harry dared watch. Hoping very
much that the Keeper wasnt Ron, he dropped his eyes back to the
parchment dotted with blood.
I must not tell lies.
I must not tell lies.
He looked up whenever he thought he could risk it, when he could
hear the scratching of Umbridges quill or the opening of a desk
drawer. The third person to try out was pretty good, the fourth was
terrible, the fifth dodged a Bludger exceptionally well but then fum
bled an easy save. The sky was darkening so that Harry doubted he
would be able to watch the sixth and seventh people at all.
I must not tell lies.
I must not tell lies.
The parchment was now shining with drops of blood from the back
of his hand, which was searing with pain. When he next looked up,
night had fallen and the Quidditch pitch was no longer visible.


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
Lets see if youve gotten the message yet, shall we? said Um
bridges soft voice half an hour later.
She moved toward him, stretching out her short beringed fingers
for his arm. And then, as she took hold of him to examine the words
now cut into his skin, pain seared, not across the back of his hand, but
across the scar on his forehead. At the same time, he had a most pe
culiar sensation somewhere around his midriff.
He wrenched his arm out of her grip and leapt to his feet, staring at
her. She looked back at him, a smile stretching her wide, slack mouth.
Yes, it hurts, doesnt it? she said softly.
He did not answer. His heart was thumping very hard and fast. Was
she talking about his hand or did she know what he had just felt in his
forehead?
Well, I think Ive made my point, Mr. Potter. You may go.
He caught up his schoolbag and left the room as quickly as he
could.
Stay calm, he told himself as he sprinted up the stairs. Stay calm, it
doesnt necessarily mean what you think it means. . . .
Mimbulus mimbletonia! he gasped at the Fat Lady, who swung
forward once more.
A roar of sound greeted him. Ron came running toward him,
beaming all over his face and slopping butterbeer down his front from
the goblet he was clutching.
Harry, I did it, Im in, Im Keeper!
What? Oh  brilliant! said Harry, trying to smile naturally,
while his heart continued to race and his hand throbbed and bled.
Have a butterbeer. Ron pressed a bottle onto him. I cant believe
it  wheres Hermione gone?
Shes there, said Fred, who was also swigging butterbeer, and
pointed to an armchair by the fire. Hermione was dozing in it, her
drink tipping precariously in her hand.


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Well, she said she was pleased when I told her, said Ron, looking
slightly put out.
Let her sleep, said George hastily. It was a few moments before
Harry noticed that several of the first years gathered around them bore
unmistakable signs of recent nosebleeds.
Come here, Ron, and see if Olivers old robes fit you, called Katie
Bell. We can take off his name and put yours on instead. . . .
As Ron moved away, Angelina came striding up to Harry.
Sorry I was a bit short with you earlier, Potter, she said abruptly.
Its stressful, this managing lark, you know, Im starting to think I
was a bit hard on Wood sometimes. She was watching Ron over the
rim of her goblet with a slight frown on her face.
Look, I know hes your best mate, but hes not fabulous, she said
bluntly. I think with a bit of training hell be all right, though. He
comes from a family of good Quidditch players. Im banking on him
turning out to have a bit more talent than he showed today, to
be honest. Vicky Frobisher and Geoffrey Hooper both flew better
this evening, but Hoopers a real whiner, hes always moaning about
something or other, and Vickys involved in all sorts of societies, she
admitted herself that if training clashed with her Charm Club shed
put Charms first. Anyway, were having a practice session at two
oclock tomorrow, so just make sure youre there this time. And do me
a favor and help Ron as much as you can, okay?
He nodded and Angelina strolled back to Alicia Spinnet. Harry
moved over to sit next to Hermione, who awoke with a jerk as he put
down his bag.
Oh, Harry, its you. . . . Good about Ron, isnt it? she said
blearily. Im just so  so  so tired, she yawned. I was up until
one oclock making more hats. Theyre disappearing like mad!
And sure enough, now that he looked, Harry saw that there were
woolly hats concealed all around the room where unwary elves might
accidentally pick them up.


DETENTION WITH
DOLORES
Great, said Harry distractedly if he did not tell somebody soon,
he would burst. Listen, Hermione, I was just up in Umbridges office
and she touched my arm . . .
Hermione listened closely. When Harry had finished she said
slowly, Youre worried that YouKnowWhos controlling her like he
controlled Quirrell?
Well, said Harry, dropping his voice, its a possibility, isnt it?
I suppose so, said Hermione, though she sounded unconvinced.
But I dont think he can be possessing her the way he possessed Quir
rell, I mean, hes properly alive again now, isnt he, hes got his own
body, he wouldnt need to share someone elses. He could have her un
der the Imperius Curse, I suppose. . . .
Harry watched Fred, George, and Lee Jordan juggling empty but
terbeer bottles for a moment. Then Hermione said, But last year
your scar hurt when nobody was touching you, and didnt Dumble
dore say it had to do with what YouKnowWho was feeling at the
time? I mean, maybe this hasnt got anything to do with Umbridge at
all, maybe its just coincidence it happened while you were with her?
Shes evil, said Harry flatly. Twisted.
Shes horrible, yes, but . . . Harry, I think you ought to tell Dum
bledore your scar hurt.
It was the second time in two days he had been advised to go to
Dumbledore and his answer to Hermione was just the same as his an
swer to Ron.
Im not bothering him with this. Like you just said, its not a big
deal. Its been hurting on and off all summer  it was just a bit worse
tonight, thats all 
Harry, Im sure Dumbledore would want to be bothered by
this 
Yeah, said Harry, before he could stop himself, thats the only bit
of me Dumbledore cares about, isnt it, my scar?
Dont say that, its not true!


CHAPTER THIRTEEN
I think Ill write and tell Sirius about it, see what he thinks 
Harry, you cant put something like that in a letter! said
Hermione, looking alarmed. Dont you remember, Moody told us to
be careful what we put in writing! We just cant guarantee owls arent
being intercepted anymore!
All right, all right, I wont tell him, then! said Harry irritably. He
got to his feet. Im going to bed. Tell Ron for me, will you?
Oh no, said Hermione, looking relieved, if youre going that
means I can go without being rude too, Im absolutely exhausted and
I want to make some more hats tomorrow. Listen, you can help me if
you like, its quite fun, Im getting better, I can do patterns and bob
bles and all sorts of things now.
Harry looked into her face, which was shining with glee, and tried
to look as though he was vaguely tempted by this offer.
Er . . . no, I dont think I will, thanks, he said. Er  not tomor
row. Ive got loads of homework to do. . . .
And he traipsed off to the boys stairs, leaving her looking slightly
disappointed behind him.


C H A P T E R F O U R T E E N
PERCY AND PADFOOT
H
arry was the first to awake in his dormitory next morning.
He lay for a moment watching dust swirl in the chink of
sunlight falling through the gap in his fourposters hangings and sa
vored the thought that it was Saturday. The first week of term seemed
to have dragged on forever, like one gigantic History of Magic lesson.
Judging by the sleepy silence and the freshly minted look of that
beam of sunlight, it was just after daybreak. He pulled open the cur
tains around his bed, got up, and started to dress. The only sound
apart from the distant twittering of birds was the slow, deep breathing
of his fellow Gryffindors. He opened his schoolbag carefully, pulled
out parchment and quill, and headed out of the dormitory for the
common room.
Making straight for his favorite squashy old armchair beside the
now extinct fire, Harry settled himself down comfortably and un
rolled his parchment while looking around the room. The detritus of
crumpledup bits of parchment, old Gobstones, empty ingredient jars,
and candy wrappers that usually covered the common room at the
end of each day was gone, as were all Hermiones elf hats. Wondering


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
vaguely how many elves had now been set free whether they wanted
to be or not, Harry uncorked his ink bottle, dipped his quill into it,
and then held it suspended an inch above the smooth yellowish sur
face of his parchment, thinking hard. . . . But after a minute or so he
found himself staring into the empty grate, at a complete loss for what
to say.
He could now appreciate how hard it had been for Ron and
Hermione to write him letters over the summer. How was he sup
posed to tell Sirius everything that had happened over the past week
and pose all the questions he was burning to ask without giving po
tential letterthieves a lot of information he did not want them to
have?
He sat quite motionless for a while, gazing into the fireplace, then,
finally coming to a decision, he dipped his quill into the ink bottle
once more and set it resolutely upon the parchment.
Dear Snuffles,
Hope youre okay, the first week back heres been terrible, Im
really glad its the weekend.
Weve got a new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Pro
fessor Umbridge. Shes nearly as nice as your mum. Im writing
because that thing I wrote to you about last summer happened
again last night when I was doing a detention with Umbridge.
Were all missing our biggest friend, we hope hell be back soon.
Please write back quickly.
Best,
Harry reread this letter several times, trying to see it from the point
of view of an outsider. He could not see how they would know what
he was talking about  or who he was talking to  just from reading


PERCY AND PADFOOT
this letter. He did hope Sirius would pick up the hint about Hagrid
and tell them when he might be back Harry did not want to ask di
rectly in case it drew too much attention to what Hagrid might be up
to while he was not at Hogwarts.
Considering it was a very short letter it had taken a long time to
write sunlight had crept halfway across the room while he had been
working on it, and he could now hear distant sounds of movement
from the dormitories above. Sealing the parchment carefully he
climbed through the portrait hole and headed off for the Owlery.
I would not go that way if I were you, said Nearly Headless Nick,
drifting disconcertingly through a wall just ahead of him as he walked
down the passage. Peeves is planning an amusing joke on the next
person to pass the bust of Paracelsus halfway down the corridor.
Does it involve Paracelsus falling on top of the persons head?
asked Harry.
Funnily enough, it does, said Nearly Headless Nick in a bored
voice. Subtlety has never been Peevess strong point. Im off to try
and find the Bloody Baron. . . . He might be able to put a stop to it.
. . . See you, Harry. . . .
Yeah, bye, said Harry and instead of turning right, he turned left,
taking a longer but safer route up to the Owlery. His spirits rose as he
walked past window after window showing brilliantly blue sky he had
training later, he would be back on the Quidditch pitch at last 
Something brushed his ankles. He looked down and saw the care
takers skeletal gray cat, Mrs. Norris, slinking past him. She turned
lamplike yellow eyes upon him for a moment before disappearing be
hind a statue of Wilfred the Wistful.
Im not doing anything wrong, Harry called after her. She had
the unmistakable air of a cat that was off to report to her boss, yet
Harry could not see why he was perfectly entitled to walk up to the
Owlery on a Saturday morning.
The sun was high in the sky now and when Harry entered the


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Owlery the glassless windows dazzled his eyes thick silvery beams of
sunlight crisscrossed the circular room in which hundreds of owls nes
tled on rafters, a little restless in the early morning light, some clearly
just returned from hunting. The strawcovered floor crunched a little
as he stepped across tiny animal bones, craning his neck for a sight of
Hedwig.
There you are, he said, spotting her somewhere near the very top
of the vaulted ceiling. Get down here, Ive got a letter for you.
With a low hoot she stretched her great white wings and soared
down onto his shoulder.
Right, I know this says Snuffles on the outside, he told her, giv
ing her the letter to clasp in her beak and, without knowing exactly
why, whispering, but its for Sirius, okay?
She blinked her amber eyes once and he took that to mean that she
understood.
Safe flight, then, said Harry and he carried her to one of the win
dows with a moments pressure on his arm Hedwig took off into the
blindingly bright sky. He watched her until she became a tiny black
speck and vanished, then switched his gaze to Hagrids hut, clearly vis
ible from this window, and just as clearly uninhabited, the chimney
smokeless, the curtains drawn.
The treetops of the Forbidden Forest swayed in a light breeze.
Harry watched them, savoring the fresh air on his face, thinking about
Quidditch later . . . and then he saw it. A great, reptilian winged
horse, just like the ones pulling the Hogwarts carriages, with leathery
black wings spread wide like a pterodactyls, rose up out of the trees
like a grotesque, giant bird. It soared in a great circle and then plunged
once more into the trees. The whole thing had happened so quickly
Harry could hardly believe what he had seen, except that his heart was
hammering madly.
The Owlery door opened behind him. He leapt in shock, and turn
ing quickly, saw Cho Chang holding a letter and a parcel in her hands.


PERCY AND PADFOOT
Hi, said Harry automatically.
Oh . . . hi, she said breathlessly. I didnt think anyone would be
up here this early. . . . I only remembered five minutes ago, its my
mums birthday.
She held up the parcel.
Right, said Harry. His brain seemed to have jammed. He wanted
to say something funny and interesting, but the memory of that terri
ble winged horse was fresh in his mind.
Nice day, he said, gesturing to the windows. His insides seemed
to shrivel with embarrassment. The weather. He was talking about the
weather. . . .
Yeah, said Cho, looking around for a suitable owl. Good Quid
ditch conditions. I havent been out all week, have you?
No, said Harry.
Cho had selected one of the school barn owls. She coaxed it down
onto her arm where it held out an obliging leg so that she could attach
the parcel.
Hey, has Gryffindor got a new Keeper yet? she asked.
Yeah, said Harry. Its my friend Ron Weasley, dyou know him?
The Tornadohater? said Cho rather coolly. Is he any good?
Yeah, said Harry, I think so. I didnt see his tryout, though, I was
in detention.
Cho looked up, the parcel only halfattached to the owls legs.
That Umbridge womans foul, she said in a low voice. Putting
you in detention just because you told the truth about how  how
 how he died. Everyone heard about it, it was all over the school.
You were really brave standing up to her like that.
Harrys insides reinflated so rapidly he felt as though he might ac
tually float a few inches off the droppingstrewn floor. Who cared
about a stupid flying horse, Cho thought he had been really brave. . . .
For a moment he considered accidentallyonpurpose showing her his
cut hand as he helped her tie her parcel onto her owl. . . . But the very


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
instant that this thrilling thought occurred, the Owlery door opened
again.
Filch, the caretaker, came wheezing into the room. There were pur
ple patches on his sunken, veined cheeks, his jowls were aquiver and
his thin gray hair disheveled he had obviously run here. Mrs. Norris
came trotting at his heels, gazing up at the owls overhead and mewing
hungrily. There was a restless shifting of wings from above, and a large
brown owl snapped his beak in a menacing fashion.
Aha! said Filch, taking a flatfooted step toward Harry, his
pouchy cheeks trembling with anger. Ive had a tipoff that you are
intending to place a massive order for Dungbombs!
Harry folded his arms and stared at the caretaker.
Who told you I was ordering Dungbombs?
Cho was looking from Harry to Filch, also frowning the barn owl
on her arm, tired of standing on one leg, gave an admonitory hoot but
she ignored it.
I have my sources, said Filch in a selfsatisfied hiss. Now hand
over whatever it is youre sending.
Feeling immensely thankful that he had not dawdled in posting off
the letter, Harry said, I cant, its gone.
Gone? said Filch, his face contorting with rage.
Gone, said Harry calmly.
Filch opened his mouth furiously, mouthed for a few seconds, then
raked Harrys robes with his eyes. How do I know you havent got it
in your pocket?
Because 
I saw him send it, said Cho angrily.
Filch rounded on her.
You saw him  ?
Thats right, I saw him, she said fiercely.
There was a moments pause in which Filch glared at Cho and Cho


PERCY AND PADFOOT
glared right back, then the caretaker turned and shuffled back toward
the door. He stopped with his hand on the handle and looked back at
Harry.
If I get so much as a whiff of a Dungbomb . . .
He stumped off down the stairs. Mrs. Norris cast a last longing
look at the owls and followed him.
Harry and Cho looked at each other.
Thanks, Harry said.
No problem, said Cho, finally fixing the parcel to the barn owls
other leg, her face slightly pink. You werent ordering Dungbombs,
were you?
No, said Harry.
I wonder why he thought you were, then? she said, as she carried
the owl to the window.
Harry shrugged he was quite as mystified by that as she was,
though, oddly, it was not bothering him very much at the moment.
They left the Owlery together. At the entrance of a corridor that led
toward the west wing of the castle, Cho said, Im going this way.
Well, Ill . . . Ill see you around, Harry.
Yeah . . . see you.
She smiled at him and departed. He walked on, feeling quietly
elated. He had managed to have an entire conversation with her and
not embarrassed himself once. . . . You were really brave standing up to
her like that. . . . She had called him brave. . . . She did not hate him
for being alive. . . .
Of course, she had preferred Cedric, he knew that. . . . Though if
hed only asked her to the ball before Cedric had, things might have
turned out differently. . . . She had seemed sincerely sorry that she
had to refuse when Harry had asked her. . . .
Morning, Harry said brightly to Ron and Hermione, joining
them at the Gryffindor table in the Great Hall.


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
What are you looking so pleased about? said Ron, eyeing Harry
in surprise.
Erm . . . Quidditch later, said Harry happily, pulling a large plat
ter of bacon and eggs toward him.
Oh . . . yeah . . . said Ron. He put down the bit of toast he was
eating and took a large swig of pumpkin juice. Then he said, Listen
. . . you dont fancy going out a bit earlier with me, do you? Just to 
er  give me some practice before training? So I can, you know, get
my eye in a bit . . .
Yeah, okay, said Harry.
Look, I dont think you should, said Hermione seriously, youre
both really behind on homework as it 
But she broke off the morning post was arriving and, as usual, the
Daily Prophet was soaring toward her in the beak of a screech owl,
which landed perilously close to the sugar bowl and held out a leg
Hermione pushed a Knut into its leather pouch, took the newspaper,
and scanned the front page critically as the owl took off again.
Anything interesting? said Ron Harry smiled  he knew Ron
was keen to get her off the subject of homework.
No, she sighed, just some guff about the bass player in the
Weird Sisters getting married. . . .
She opened the paper and disappeared behind it. Harry devoted
himself to another helping of eggs and bacon Ron was staring up at
the high windows, looking slightly preoccupied.
Wait a moment, said Hermione suddenly. Oh no . . . Sirius!
Whats happened? said Harry, and he snatched at the paper so
violently that it ripped down the middle so that he and Hermione
were holding half each.
  The Ministry of Magic has received a tipoff from a reliable source
that Sirius Black, notorious mass murderer . . . blah blah blah . . . is cur
rently hiding in London!  Hermione read from her half in an anguished
whisper.


PERCY AND PADFOOT
Lucius Malfoy, Ill bet anything, said Harry in a low, furious
voice. He did recognize Sirius on the platform. . . .
What? said Ron, looking alarmed. You didnt say 
Shh! said the other two.
. . .  Ministry warns Wizarding community that Black is very danger
ous . . . killed thirteen people . . . broke out of Azkaban . . . the usual
rubbish, Hermione concluded, laying down her half of the paper and
looking fearfully at Harry and Ron. Well, he just wont be able to
leave the house again, thats all, she whispered. Dumbledore did
warn him not to.
Harry looked down glumly at the bit of the Prophet he had torn off.
Most of the page was devoted to an advertisement for Madame
Malkins Robes for All Occasions, which was apparently having a sale.
Hey! he said, flattening it down so Hermione and Ron could
both see it. Look at this!
Ive got all the robes I want, said Ron.
No, said Harry, look . . . this little piece here . . .
Ron and Hermione bent closer to read it the item was barely an
inch long and placed right at the bottom of a column. It was head
lined
TRESPASS AT MINISTRY
Sturgis Podmore, , of number two, Laburnum
Gardens, Clapham, has appeared in front of the
Wizengamot charged with trespass and attempted
robbery at the Ministry of Magic on st August.
Podmore was arrested by Ministry of Magic watch
wizard Eric Munch, who found him attempting to
force his way through a topsecurity door at one
oclock in the morning. Podmore, who refused to
speak in his own defense, was convicted on both
charges and sentenced to six months in Azkaban.


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Sturgis Podmore? said Ron slowly, but hes that bloke who looks
like his heads been thatched, isnt he? Hes one of the Ord 
Ron, shh! said Hermione, casting a terrified look around them.
Six months in Azkaban! whispered Harry, shocked. Just for try
ing to get through a door!
Dont be silly, it wasnt just for trying to get through a door 
what on earth was he doing at the Ministry of Magic at one oclock in
the morning? breathed Hermione.
Dyou reckon he was doing something for the Order? Ron
muttered.
Wait a moment. . . . said Harry slowly. Sturgis was supposed to
come and see us off, remember?
The other two looked at him.
Yeah, he was supposed to be part of our guard going to Kings
Cross, remember? And Moody was all annoyed because he didnt turn
up, so that doesnt seem like he was supposed to be on a job for them,
does it?
Well, maybe they didnt expect him to get caught, said
Hermione.
It could be a frameup! Ron exclaimed excitedly. No  listen!
he went on, dropping his voice dramatically at the threatening look
on Hermiones face. The Ministry suspects hes one of Dumbledores
lot so  I dunno  they lured him to the Ministry, and he wasnt
trying to get through a door at all! Maybe theyve just made some
thing up to get him!
There was a pause while Harry and Hermione considered this.
Harry thought it seemed farfetched Hermione, on the other hand,
looked rather impressed and said, Do you know, I wouldnt be at all
surprised if that were true.
She folded up her half of the newspaper thoughtfully. When Harry
laid down his knife and fork she seemed to come out of a reverie.


PERCY AND PADFOOT
Right, well, I think we should tackle that essay for Sprout on Self
Fertilizing Shrubs first, and if were lucky well be able to start McGo
nagalls Inanimatus Conjurus before lunch. . . .
Harry felt a small twinge of guilt at the thought of the pile of
homework awaiting him upstairs, but the sky was a clear, exhilarating
blue, and he had not been on his Firebolt for a week. . . .
I mean, we can do it tonight, said Ron, as he and Harry walked
down the sloping lawns toward the Quidditch pitch, their broom
sticks over their shoulders, Hermiones dire warnings that they would
fail all their O.W.L.s still ringing in their ears. And weve got tomor
row. She gets too worked up about work, thats her trouble. . . . There
was a pause and he added, in a slightly more anxious tone, Dyou
think she meant it when she said we werent copying from her?
Yeah, I do, said Harry. Still, this is important too, weve got to
practice if we want to stay on the Quidditch team. . . .
Yeah, thats right, said Ron in a heartened tone. And we have got
plenty of time to do it all. . . .
Harry glanced over to his right as they approached the Quidditch
pitch, to where the trees of the Forbidden Forest were swaying darkly.
Nothing flew out of them the sky was empty but for a few distant
owls fluttering around the Owlery Tower. He had enough to worry
about the flying horse wasnt doing him any harm He pushed it out
of his mind.
They collected balls from the cupboard in the changing room and
set to work, Ron guarding the three tall goalposts, Harry playing
Chaser and trying to get the Quaffle past Ron. Harry thought Ron
was pretty good he blocked threequarters of the goals Harry at
tempted to put past him and played better the longer they practiced.
After a couple of hours they returned to the school, where they ate
lunch, during which Hermione made it quite clear that she thought
they were irresponsible, then returned to the Quidditch pitch for the


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
real training session. All their teammates but Angelina were already in
the changing room when they entered.
All right, Ron? said George, winking at him.
Yeah, said Ron, who had become quieter and quieter all the way
down to the pitch.
Ready to show us all up, Ickle Prefect? said Fred, emerging
touslehaired from the neck of his Quidditch robes, a slightly mali
cious grin on his face.
Shut up, said Ron, stonyfaced, pulling on his own team robes
for the first time. They fitted him well considering they had been
Oliver Woods, who was rather broader in the shoulder.
Okay everyone, said Angelina, entering from the Captains office,
already changed. Lets get to it Alicia and Fred, if you can just bring
the ball crate out for us. Oh, and there are a couple of people out there
watching but I want you to just ignore them, all right?
Something in her wouldbe casual voice made Harry think he
might know who the uninvited spectators were, and sure enough,
when they left the changing room for the bright sunlight of the pitch
it was to a storm of catcalls and jeers from the Slytherin Quidditch
team and assorted hangerson, who were grouped halfway up the
empty stands and whose voices echoed loudly around the stadium.
Whats that Weasleys riding? Malfoy called in his sneering drawl.
Why would anyone put a Flying Charm on a moldy old log like
that?
Crabbe, Goyle, and Pansy Parkinson guffawed and shrieked with
laughter. Ron mounted his broom and kicked off from the ground
and Harry followed him, watching his ears turn red from behind.
Ignore them, he said, accelerating to catch up with Ron. Well
see whos laughing after we play them. . . .
Exactly the attitude I want, Harry, said Angelina approvingly,
soaring around them with the Quaffle under her arm and slowing to
hover on the spot in front of her airborne team. Okay everyone, were


PERCY AND PADFOOT
going to start with some passes just to warm up, the whole team
please 
Hey, Johnson, whats with that hairstyle anyway? shrieked Pansy
Parkinson from below. Why would anyone want to look like theyve
got worms coming out of their head?
Angelina swept her long braided hair out of her face and said
calmly, Spread out, then, and lets see what we can do. . . .
Harry reversed away from the others to the far side of the pitch.
Ron fell back toward the opposite goal. Angelina raised the Quaffle
with one hand and threw it hard to Fred, who passed to George, who
passed to Harry, who passed to Ron, who dropped it.
The Slytherins, led by Malfoy, roared and screamed with laughter.
Ron, who had pelted toward the ground to catch the Quaffle before it
landed, pulled out of the dive untidily, so that he slipped sideways on
his broom, and returned to playing height, blushing. Harry saw Fred
and George exchange looks, but uncharacteristically neither of them
said anything, for which he was grateful.
Pass it on, Ron, called Angelina, as though nothing had happened.
Ron threw the Quaffle to Alicia, who passed back to Harry, who
passed to George. . . .
Hey, Potter, hows your scar feeling? called Malfoy. Sure you
dont need a liedown? It must be, what, a whole week since you were
in the hospital wing, thats a record for you, isnt it?
Fred passed to Angelina she reverse passed to Harry, who had not
been expecting it, but caught it in the very tips of his fingers and
passed it quickly to Ron, who lunged for it and missed by inches.
Come on now, Ron, said Angelina crossly, as Ron dived for the
ground again, chasing the Quaffle. Pay attention.
It would have been hard to say whether Rons face or the Quaffle
was a deeper scarlet when he returned again to playing height. Malfoy
and the rest of the Slytherin team were howling with laughter.
On his third attempt, Ron caught the Quaffle perhaps out of relief


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
he passed it on so enthusiastically that it soared straight through
Katies outstretched hands and hit her hard in the face.
Sorry! Ron groaned, zooming forward to see whether he had
done any damage.
Get back in position, shes fine! barked Angelina. But as youre
passing to a teammate, do try not to knock her off her broom, wont
you? Weve got Bludgers for that!
Katies nose was bleeding. Down below the Slytherins were stamp
ing their feet and jeering. Fred and George converged on Katie.
Here, take this, Fred told her, handing her something small and
purple from out of his pocket. Itll clear it up in no time.
All right, called Angelina, Fred, George, go and get your bats
and a Bludger Ron, get up to the goalposts, Harry, release the Snitch
when I say so. Were going to aim for Rons goal, obviously.
Harry zoomed off after the twins to fetch the Snitch.
Rons making a right pigs ear of things, isnt he? muttered
George, as the three of them landed at the crate containing the balls
and opened it to extract one of the Bludgers and the Snitch.
Hes just nervous, said Harry. He was fine when I was practicing
with him this morning.
Yeah, well, I hope he hasnt peaked too soon, said Fred gloomily.
They returned to the air. When Angelina blew her whistle, Harry
released the Snitch and Fred and George let fly the Bludger from that
moment on, Harry was barely aware of what the others were doing. It
was his job to recapture the tiny fluttering golden ball that was worth
a hundred and fifty points to the Seekers team and doing so required
enormous speed and skill. He accelerated, rolling and swerving in and
out of the Chasers, the warm autumn air whipping his face and the
distant yells of the Slytherins so much meaningless roaring in his ears.
. . . But too soon, the whistle brought him to a halt again.
Stop  stop  STOP! screamed Angelina. Ron  youre not
covering your middle post!


PERCY AND PADFOOT
Harry looked around at Ron, who was hovering in front of the left
hand hoop, leaving the other two completely unprotected.
Oh . . . sorry . . .
You keep shifting around while youre watching the Chasers! said
Angelina. Either stay in center position until you have to move to de
fend a hoop, or else circle the hoops, but dont drift vaguely off to one
side, thats how you let in the last three goals!
Sorry . . . Ron repeated, his red face shining like a beacon against
the bright blue sky.
And Katie, cant you do something about that nosebleed?
Its just getting worse! said Katie thickly, attempting to stem the
flow with her sleeve.
Harry glanced around at Fred, who was looking anxious and check
ing his pockets. He saw Fred pull out something purple, examine it
for a second, and then look around at Katie, evidently horrorstruck.
Well, lets try again, said Angelina. She was ignoring the Slyth
erins, who had now set up a chant of Gryffindor are losers, Gryffindor
are losers, but there was a certain rigidity about her seat on the broom
nevertheless.
This time they had been flying for barely three minutes when
Angelinas whistle sounded. Harry, who had just sighted the Snitch
circling the opposite goalpost, pulled up feeling distinctly aggrieved.
What now? he said impatiently to Alicia, who was nearest.
Katie, she said shortly.
Harry turned and saw Angelina, Fred, and George all flying as fast
as they could toward Katie. Harry and Alicia sped toward her too. It
was plain that Angelina had stopped training just in time Katie was
now chalkwhite and covered in blood.
She needs the hospital wing, said Angelina.
Well take her, said Fred. She  er  might have swallowed a
Blood Blisterpod by mistake 
Well, theres no point continuing with no Beaters and a Chaser


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
gone, said Angelina glumly, as Fred and George zoomed off toward
the castle supporting Katie between them. Come on, lets go and get
changed.
The Slytherins continued to chant as they trailed back into the
changing rooms.
How was practice? asked Hermione rather coolly half an hour
later, as Harry and Ron climbed through the portrait hole into the
Gryffindor common room.
It was  Harry began.
Completely lousy, said Ron in a hollow voice, sinking into a chair
beside Hermione. She looked up at Ron and her frostiness seemed to
melt.
Well, it was only your first one, she said consolingly, its bound
to take time to 
Who said it was me who made it lousy? snapped Ron.
No one, said Hermione, looking taken aback, I thought 
You thought I was bound to be rubbish?
No, of course I didnt! Look, you said it was lousy so I just 
Im going to get started on some homework, said Ron angrily
and stomped off to the staircase to the boys dormitories and vanished
from sight. Hermione turned to Harry.
Was he lousy?
No, said Harry loyally.
Hermione raised her eyebrows.
Well, I suppose he couldve played better, Harry muttered, but
it was only the first training session, like you said. . . .
Neither Harry nor Ron seemed to make much headway with their
homework that night. Harry knew Ron was too preoccupied with
how badly he had performed at Quidditch practice and he himself
was having difficulty in getting the chant of Gryffindor are losers out
of his head.
They spent the whole of Sunday in the common room, buried in


PERCY AND PADFOOT
their books while the room around them filled up, then emptied It
was another clear, fine day and most of their fellow Gryffindors spent
the day out in the grounds, enjoying what might well be some of the
last sunshine that year. By the evening Harry felt as though somebody
had been beating his brain against the inside of his skull.
You know, we probably should try and get more homework done
during the week, Harry muttered to Ron, as they finally laid aside
Professor McGonagalls long essay on the Inanimatus Conjurus spell
and turned miserably to Professor Sinistras equally long and difficult
essay about Jupiters moons.
Yeah, said Ron, rubbing slightly bloodshot eyes and throwing his
fifth spoiled bit of parchment into the fire beside them. Listen . . .
shall we just ask Hermione if we can have a look at what shes done?
Harry glanced over at her she was sitting with Crookshanks on her
lap and chatting merrily to Ginny as a pair of knitting needles flashed
in midair in front of her, now knitting a pair of shapeless elf socks.
No, he said heavily, you know she wont let us.
And so they worked on while the sky outside the windows became
steadily darker slowly, the crowd in the common room began to thin
again. At halfpast eleven, Hermione wandered over to them,
yawning.
Nearly done?
No, said Ron shortly.
Jupiters biggest moon is Ganymede, not Callisto, she said,
pointing over Rons shoulder at a line in his Astronomy essay, and its
Io thats got the volcanos.
Thanks, snarled Ron, scratching out the offending sentences.
Sorry, I only 
Yeah, well, if youve just come over here to criticize 
Ron 
I havent got time to listen to a sermon, all right, Hermione, Im
up to my neck in it here 


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
No  look!
Hermione was pointing to the nearest window. Harry and Ron
both looked over. A handsome screech owl was standing on the win
dowsill, gazing into the room at Ron.
Isnt that Hermes? said Hermione, sounding amazed.
Blimey, it is! said Ron quietly, throwing down his quill and get
ting to his feet. Whats Percy writing to me for?
He crossed to the window and opened it Hermes flew inside,
landed upon Rons essay, and held out a leg to which a letter was at
tached. Ron took it off and the owl departed at once, leaving inky
footprints across Rons drawing of the moon Io.
Thats definitely Percys handwriting, said Ron, sinking back into
his chair and staring at the words on the outside of the scroll To
Ronald Weasley, Gryffindor House, Hogwarts. He looked up at the other
two. What dyou reckon?
Open it! said Hermione eagerly. Harry nodded.
Ron unrolled the scroll and began to read. The farther down the
parchment his eyes traveled, the more pronounced became his scowl.
When he had finished reading, he looked disgusted. He thrust the let
ter at Harry and Hermione, who leaned toward each other to read it
together
Dear Ron,
I have only just heard from no less a person than the Minister
of Magic himself, who has it from your new teacher, Professor
Umbridge that you have become a Hogwarts prefect.
I was most pleasantly surprised when I heard this news and
must firstly offer my congratulations. I must admit that I have al
ways been afraid that you would take what we might call the
Fred and George route, rather than following in my footsteps, so
you can imagine my feelings on hearing you have stopped flouting
authority and have decided to shoulder some real responsibility.


PERCY AND PADFOOT
But I want to give you more than congratulations, Ron, I
want to give you some advice, which is why I am sending this at
night rather than by the usual morning post. Hopefully you will
be able to read this away from prying eyes and avoid awkward
questions.
From something the Minister let slip when telling me you are
now a prefect, I gather that you are still seeing a lot of Harry Pot
ter. I must tell you, Ron, that nothing could put you in danger of
losing your badge more than continued fraternization with that
boy. Yes, I am sure you are surprised to hear this  no doubt you
will say that Potter has always been Dumbledores favorite  but
I feel bound to tell you that Dumbledore may not be in charge at
Hogwarts much longer and the people who count have a very dif
ferent  and probably more accurate  view of Potters behav
ior. I shall say no more here, but if you look at the Daily Prophet
tomorrow you will get a good idea of the way the wind is blow
ing  and see if you can spot yours truly!
Seriously, Ron, you do not want to be tarred with the same
brush as Potter, it could be very damaging to your future
prospects, and I am talking here about life after school too. As you
must be aware, given that our father escorted him to court, Pot
ter had a disciplinary hearing this summer in front of the whole
Wizengamot and he did not come out of it looking too good. He
got off on a mere technicality if you ask me and many of the peo
ple Ive spoken to remain convinced of his guilt.
It may be that you are afraid to sever ties with Potter  I
know that he can be unbalanced and, for all I know, violent 
but if you have any worries about this, or have spotted anything
else in Potters behavior that is troubling you, I urge you to speak
to Dolores Umbridge, a really delightful woman, who I know
will be only too happy to advise you.
This leads me to my other bit of advice. As I have hinted


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
above, Dumbledores regime at Hogwarts may soon be over. Your
loyalty, Ron, should be not to him, but to the school and the Min
istry. I am very sorry to hear that so far Professor Umbridge is en
countering very little cooperation from staff as she strives to make
those necessary changes within Hogwarts that the Ministry so ar
dently desires although she should find this easier from next
week  again, see the Prophet tomorrow!. I shall say only this
 a student who shows himself willing to help Professor Um
bridge now may be very well placed for Head Boyship in a couple
of years!
I am sorry that I was unable to see more of you over the sum
mer. It pains me to criticize our parents, but I am afraid I can no
longer live under their roof while they remain mixed up with the
dangerous crowd around Dumbledore if you are writing to
Mother at any point, you might tell her that a certain Sturgis
Podmore, who is a great friend of Dumbledores, has recently been
sent to Azkaban for trespass at the Ministry. Perhaps that will
open their eyes to the kind of petty criminals with whom they are
currently rubbing shoulders. I count myself very lucky to have es
caped the stigma of association with such people  the Minister
really could not be more gracious to me  and I do hope, Ron,
that you will not allow family ties to blind you to the misguided
nature of our parents beliefs and actions either. I sincerely hope
that, in time, they will realize how mistaken they were and I
shall, of course, be ready to accept a full apology when that day
comes.
Please think over what I have said most carefully, particularly
the bit about Harry Potter, and congratulations again on becom
ing prefect.
Your brother,


PERCY AND PADFOOT
Harry looked up at Ron.
Well, he said, trying to sound as though he found the whole
thing a joke, if you want to  er  what is it? He checked Percys
letter. Oh yeah  sever ties with me, I swear I wont get violent.
Give it back, said Ron, holding out his hand. He is  Ron said
jerkily, tearing Percys letter in half, the worlds  he tore it into
quarters  biggest  he tore it into eighths  git. He threw the
pieces into the fire.
Come on, weve got to get this finished some time before dawn,
he said briskly to Harry, pulling Professor Sinistras essay back toward
him.
Hermione was looking at Ron with an odd expression on her face.
Oh, give them here, she said abruptly.
What? said Ron.
Give them to me, Ill look through them and correct them, she
said.
Are you serious? Ah, Hermione, youre a lifesaver, said Ron,
what can I  ?
What you can say is, We promise well never leave our homework
this late again,  she said, holding out both hands for their essays, but
she looked slightly amused all the same.
Thanks a million, Hermione, said Harry weakly, passing over his
essay and sinking back into his armchair, rubbing his eyes.
It was now past midnight and the common room was deserted but
for the three of them and Crookshanks. The only sound was that of
Hermiones quill scratching out sentences here and there on their
essays and the ruffle of pages as she checked various facts in the refer
ence books strewn across the table. Harry was exhausted. He also felt
an odd, sick, empty feeling in his stomach that had nothing to do
with tiredness and everything to do with the letter now curling
blackly in the heart of the fire.
He knew that half the people inside Hogwarts thought him


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
strange, even mad he knew that the Daily Prophet had been making
snide allusions to him for months, but there was something about see
ing it written down like that in Percys writing, about knowing that
Percy was advising Ron to drop him and even to tell tales on him to
Umbridge, that made his situation real to him as nothing else had. He
had known Percy for four years, had stayed in his house during the
summers, shared a tent with him during the Quidditch World Cup,
had even been awarded full marks by him in the second task of the
Triwizard Tournament last year, yet now, Percy thought him unbal
anced and possibly violent.
And with a surge of sympathy for his godfather, Harry thought that
Sirius was probably the only person he knew who could really under
stand how he felt at the moment, because Sirius was in the same situ
ation nearly everyone in the Wizarding world thought Sirius a
dangerous murderer and a great Voldemort supporter and he had had
to live with that knowledge for fourteen years. . . .
Harry blinked. He had just seen something in the fire that could
not have been there. It had flashed into sight and vanished immedi
ately. No . . . it could not have been. . . . He had imagined it because
he had been thinking about Sirius. . . .
Okay, write that down, Hermione said to Ron, pushing his essay
and a sheet covered in her own writing back to Ron, and then copy
out this conclusion that Ive written for you.
Hermione, you are honestly the most wonderful person Ive ever
met, said Ron weakly, and if Im ever rude to you again 
 Ill know youre back to normal, said Hermione. Harry,
yours is okay except for this bit at the end, I think you must have mis
heard Professor Sinistra, Europas covered in ice, not mice  Harry?
Harry had slid off his chair onto his knees and was now crouching
on the singed and threadbare hearthrug, gazing into the flames.
Er  Harry? said Ron uncertainly. Why are you down there?
Because Ive just seen Siriuss head in the fire, said Harry.


PERCY AND PADFOOT
He spoke quite calmly after all, he had seen Siriuss head in this
very fire the previous year and talked to it too. Nevertheless, he could
not be sure that he had really seen it this time. . . . It had vanished so
quickly. . . .
Siriuss head? Hermione repeated. You mean like when he
wanted to talk to you during the Triwizard Tournament? But he
wouldnt do that now, it would be too  Sirius!
She gasped, gazing at the fire Ron dropped his quill. There in the
middle of the dancing flames sat Siriuss head, long dark hair falling
around his grinning face.
I was starting to think youd go to bed before everyone else had
disappeared, he said. Ive been checking every hour.
Youve been popping into the fire every hour? Harry said, half
laughing.
Just for a few seconds to check if the coast was clear yet.
But what if youd been seen? said Hermione anxiously.
Well, I think a girl  first year by the look of her  mightve got
a glimpse of me earlier, but dont worry, Sirius said hastily, as
Hermione clapped a hand to her mouth. I was gone the moment she
looked back at me and Ill bet she just thought I was an oddly shaped
log or something.
But Sirius, this is taking an awful risk  Hermione began.
You sound like Molly, said Sirius. This was the only way I could
come up with of answering Harrys letter without resorting to a
code  and codes are breakable.
At the mention of Harrys letter, Hermione and Ron had both
turned to stare at him.
You didnt say youd written to Sirius! said Hermione accusingly.
I forgot, said Harry, which was perfectly true his meeting with
Cho in the Owlery had driven everything before it out of his mind.
Dont look at me like that, Hermione, there was no way anyone
would have got secret information out of it, was there, Sirius?


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
No, it was very good, said Sirius, smiling. Anyway, wed better
be quick, just in case were disturbed  your scar.
What about  ? Ron began, but Hermione said quickly, Well
tell you afterward, go on, Sirius.
Well, I know it cant be fun when it hurts, but we dont think its
anything to really worry about. It kept aching all last year, didnt it?
Yeah, and Dumbledore said it happened whenever Voldemort was
feeling a powerful emotion, said Harry, ignoring, as usual, Ron and
Hermiones winces. So maybe he was just, I dunno, really angry or
something the night I had that detention.
Well, now hes back its bound to hurt more often, said Sirius.
So you dont think it had anything to do with Umbridge touching
me when I was in detention with her? Harry asked.
I doubt it, said Sirius. I know her by reputation and Im sure
shes no Death Eater 
Shes foul enough to be one, said Harry darkly and Ron and
Hermione nodded vigorously in agreement.
Yes, but the world isnt split into good people and Death Eaters,
said Sirius with a wry smile. I know shes a nasty piece of work,
though  you should hear Remus talk about her.
Does Lupin know her? asked Harry quickly, remembering Um
bridges comments about dangerous halfbreeds during her first
lesson.
No, said Sirius, but she drafted a bit of antiwerewolf legislation
two years ago that makes it almost impossible for him to get a job.
Harry remembered how much shabbier Lupin looked these days
and his dislike of Umbridge deepened even further.
Whats she got against werewolves? said Hermione angrily.
Scared of them, I expect, said Sirius, smiling at her indignation.
Apparently she loathes parthumans she campaigned to have mer
people rounded up and tagged last year too. Imagine wasting your


PERCY AND PADFOOT
time and energy persecuting merpeople when there are little toerags
like Kreacher on the loose 
Ron laughed but Hermione looked upset.
Sirius! she said reproachfully. Honestly, if you made a bit of an ef
fort with Kreacher Im sure hed respond, after all, you are the only
member of his family hes got left, and Professor Dumbledore said 
So what are Umbridges lessons like? Sirius interrupted. Is she
training you all to kill halfbreeds?
No, said Harry, ignoring Hermiones affronted look at being cut
off in her defense of Kreacher. Shes not letting us use magic at all!
All we do is read the stupid textbook, said Ron.
Ah, well, that figures, said Sirius. Our information from inside
the Ministry is that Fudge doesnt want you trained in combat.
Trained in combat? repeated Harry incredulously. What does he
think were doing here, forming some sort of wizard army?
Thats exactly what he thinks youre doing, said Sirius, or rather,
thats exactly what hes afraid Dumbledores doing  forming his
own private army, with which he will be able to take on the Ministry
of Magic.
There was a pause at this, then Ron said, Thats the stupidest
thing Ive ever heard, including all the stuff that Luna Lovegood
comes out with.
So were being prevented from learning Defense Against the Dark
Arts because Fudge is scared well use spells against the Ministry? said
Hermione, looking furious.
Yep, said Sirius. Fudge thinks Dumbledore will stop at nothing
to seize power. Hes getting more paranoid about Dumbledore by the
day. Its a matter of time before he has Dumbledore arrested on some
trumpedup charge.
This reminded Harry of Percys letter.
Dyou know if theres going to be anything about Dumbledore in


CHAPTER FOURTEEN
the Daily Prophet tomorrow? Only Rons brother Percy reckons there
will be 
I dont know, said Sirius, I havent seen anyone from the Order
all weekend, theyre all busy. Its just been Kreacher and me here. . . .
There was a definite note of bitterness in Siriuss voice.
So you havent had any news about Hagrid, either?
Ah . . . said Sirius, well, he was supposed to be back by now, no
ones sure whats happened to him. Then, seeing their stricken faces,
he added quickly, But Dumbledores not worried, so dont you three
get yourselves in a state Im sure Hagrids fine.
But if he was supposed to be back by now . . . said Hermione in
a small, worried voice.
Madame Maxime was with him, weve been in touch with her and
she says they got separated on the journey home  but theres noth
ing to suggest hes hurt or  well, nothing to suggest hes not perfectly
okay.
Unconvinced, Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchanged worried
looks.
Listen, dont go asking too many questions about Hagrid, said
Sirius hastily, itll just draw even more attention to the fact that hes
not back, and I know Dumbledore doesnt want that. Hagrids tough,
hell be okay. And when they did not appear cheered by this, Sirius
added, Whens your next Hogsmeade weekend anyway? I was think
ing, we got away with the dog disguise at the station, didnt we? I
thought I could 
NO! said Harry and Hermione together, very loudly.
Sirius, didnt you see the Daily Prophet? said Hermione anxiously.
Oh that, said Sirius, grinning, theyre always guessing where I
am, they havent really got a clue 
Yeah, but we think this time they have, said Harry. Something
Malfoy said on the train made us think he knew it was you, and his fa
ther was on the platform, Sirius  you know, Lucius Malfoy  so


PERCY AND PADFOOT
dont come up here, whatever you do, if Malfoy recognizes you
again 
All right, all right, Ive got the point, said Sirius. He looked most
displeased. Just an idea, thought you might like to get together 
I would, I just dont want you chucked back in Azkaban! said
Harry.
There was a pause in which Sirius looked out of the fire at Harry, a
crease between his sunken eyes.
Youre less like your father than I thought, he said finally, a defi
nite coolness in his voice. The risk wouldve been what made it fun
for James.
Look 
Well, Id better get going, I can hear Kreacher coming down the
stairs, said Sirius, but Harry was sure he was lying. Ill write to tell
you a time I can make it back into the fire, then, shall I? If you can
stand to risk it?
There was a tiny pop, and the place where Siriuss head had been
was flickering flame once more.


C H A P T E R F I F T E E N
THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
T
hey had expected to have to comb Hermiones Daily Prophet
carefully next morning to find the article Percy had mentioned
in his letter. However, the departing delivery owl had barely cleared
the top of the milk jug when Hermione let out a huge gasp and flat
tened the newspaper to reveal a large photograph of Dolores Um
bridge, smiling widely and blinking slowly at them from beneath the
headline
MINISTRY SEEKS EDUCATIONAL REFORM
DOLORES UMBRIDGE APPOINTED FIRSTEVER HIGH INQUISITOR
 High Inquisitor? said Harry darkly, his halfeaten bit of toast
slipping from his fingers. What does that mean?
Hermione read aloud
In a surprise move last night the Ministry of Magic passed new legis
lation giving itself an unprecedented level of control at Hogwarts School of
Witchcraft and Wizardry.
  The Minister has been growing uneasy about goingson at Hogwarts


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
for some time, said Junior Assistant to the Minister, Percy Weasley.  He is
now responding to concerns voiced by anxious parents, who feel the school
may be moving in a direction they do not approve.
This is not the first time in recent weeks Fudge has used new laws to
effect improvements at the Wizarding school. As recently as August th
Educational Decree Twentytwo was passed, to ensure that, in the event of
the current headmaster being unable to provide a candidate for a teaching
post, the Ministry should select an appropriate person.
  Thats how Dolores Umbridge came to be appointed to the teaching
staff at Hogwarts, said Weasley last night.  Dumbledore couldnt find any
one, so the Minister put in Umbridge and of course, shes been an imme
diate success  
Shes been a WHAT? said Harry loudly.
Wait, theres more, said Hermione grimly.
  an immediate success, totally revolutionizing the teaching of
Defense Against the Dark Arts and providing the Minister with onthe
ground feedback about whats really happening at Hogwarts.
It is this last function that the Ministry has now formalized with the
passing of Educational Decree Twentythree, which creates the new posi
tion of  Hogwarts High Inquisitor.
  This is an exciting new phase in the Ministers plan to get to grips
with what some are calling the falling standards at Hogwarts, said
Weasley.  The Inquisitor will have powers to inspect her fellow educators
and make sure that they are coming up to scratch. Professor Umbridge has
been offered this position in addition to her own teaching post, and we are
delighted to say that she has accepted.
The Ministrys new moves have received enthusiastic support from
parents of students at Hogwarts.
  I feel much easier in my mind now that I know that Dumbledore is
being subjected to fair and objective evaluation, said Mr. Lucius Malfoy,
, speaking from his Wiltshire mansion last night. Many of us with our
childrens best interests at heart have been concerned about some of


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
Dumbledores eccentric decisions in the last few years and will be glad to
know that the Ministry is keeping an eye on the situation.
Among those eccentric decisions are undoubtedly the controversial
staff appointments previously described in this newspaper, which have in
cluded the hiring of werewolf Remus Lupin, half giant Rubeus Hagrid,
and delusional exAuror MadEye Moody.
Rumors abound, of course, that Albus Dumbledore, once Supreme
Mugwump of the International Confederation of Wizards and Chief
Warlock of the Wizengamot, is no longer up to the task of managing the
prestigious school of Hogwarts.
  I think the appointment of the Inquisitor is a first step toward ensur
ing that Hogwarts has a headmaster in whom we can all repose confidence,
said a Ministry insider last night.
Wizengamot elders Griselda Marchbanks and Tiberius Ogden have
resigned in protest at the introduction of the post of Inquisitor to Hogwarts.
 Hogwarts is a school, not an outpost of Cornelius Fudges office, said
Madam Marchbanks. This is a further disgusting attempt to discredit Al
bus Dumbledore. For a full account of Madam Marchbanks alleged
links to subversive goblin groups, turn to page .
Hermione finished reading and looked across the table at the other
two.
So now we know how we ended up with Umbridge! Fudge passed
this Educational Decree and forced her on us! And now hes given
her the power to inspect other teachers! Hermione was breathing fast
and her eyes were very bright. I cant believe this. Its outrageous. . . .
I know it is, said Harry. He looked down at his right hand,
clenched upon the tabletop, and saw the faint white outline of the
words Umbridge had forced him to cut into his skin.
But a grin was unfurling on Rons face.
What? said Harry and Hermione together, staring at him.
Oh, I cant wait to see McGonagall inspected, said Ron happily.
Umbridge wont know whats hit her.


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
Well, come on, said Hermione, jumping up, wed better get go
ing, if shes inspecting Binnss class we dont want to be late. . . .
But Professor Umbridge was not inspecting their History of Magic
lesson, which was just as dull as the previous Monday, nor was she in
Snapes dungeon when they arrived for double Potions, where Harrys
moonstone essay was handed back to him with a large, spiky black D
scrawled in an upper corner.
I have awarded you the grades you would have received if you pre
sented this work in your O.W.L, said Snape with a smirk, as he swept
among them, passing back their homework. This should give you a
realistic idea of what to expect in your examination.
Snape reached the front of the class and turned to face them.
The general standard of this homework was abysmal. Most of you
would have failed had this been your examination. I expect to see a
great deal more effort for this weeks essay on the various varieties of
venom antidotes, or I shall have to start handing out detentions to
those dunces who get Ds.
He smirked as Malfoy sniggered and said in a carrying whisper,
Some people got Ds? Ha!
Harry realized that Hermione was looking sideways to see what
grade he had received he slid his moonstone essay back into his bag as
quickly as possible, feeling that he would rather keep that information
private.
Determined not to give Snape an excuse to fail him this lesson,
Harry read and reread every line of the instructions on the blackboard
at least three times before acting on them. His Strengthening Solution
was not precisely the clear turquoise shade of Hermiones but it was at
least blue rather than pink, like Nevilles, and he delivered a flask of it
to Snapes desk at the end of the lesson with a feeling of mingled defi
ance and relief.
Well, that wasnt as bad as last week, was it? said Hermione, as
they climbed the steps out of the dungeon and made their way across


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
the entrance hall toward lunch. And the homework didnt go too
badly either, did it?
When neither Ron nor Harry answered, she pressed on, I mean,
all right, I didnt expect the top grade, not if hes marking to O.W.L.
standard, but a pass is quite encouraging at this stage, wouldnt you
say?
Harry made a noncommittal noise in his throat.
Of course, a lot can happen between now and the exam, weve got
plenty of time to improve, but the grades were getting now are a sort
of baseline, arent they? Something we can build on . . .
They sat down together at the Gryffindor table.
Obviously, Id have been thrilled if Id gotten an O 
Hermione, said Ron sharply, if you want to know what grades
we got, ask.
I dont  I didnt mean  well, if you want to tell me 
I got a P, said Ron, ladling soup into his bowl. Happy?
Well, thats nothing to be ashamed of, said Fred, who had just ar
rived at the table with George and Lee Jordan and was sitting down on
Harrys right. Nothing wrong with a good healthy P.
But, said Hermione, doesnt P stand for . . .
 Poor, yeah, said Lee Jordan. Still, better than D, isnt it?
Dreadful?
Harry felt his face grow warm and faked a small coughing fit over
his roll. When he emerged from this he was sorry to find that
Hermione was still in full flow about O.W.L. grades.
So top grades O for Outstanding,  she was saying, and then
theres A 
No, E, George corrected her, E for Exceeds Expectations. And
Ive always thought Fred and I shouldve got E in everything, because
we exceeded expectations just by turning up for the exams.
They all laughed except Hermione, who plowed on, So after E, its
A for Acceptable, and thats the last pass grade, isnt it?


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
Yep, said Fred, dunking an entire roll in his soup, transferring it
to his mouth, and swallowing it whole.
Then you get P for Poor   Ron raised both his arms in mock
celebration  and D for Dreadful. 
And then T, George reminded him.
T? asked Hermione, looking appalled. Even lower than a D?
What on earth does that stand for?
 Troll,  said George promptly.
Harry laughed again, though he was not sure whether or not
George was joking. He imagined trying to conceal from Hermione
that he had received Ts in all his O.W.L.s and immediately resolved
to work harder from now on.
You lot had an inspected lesson yet? Fred asked them.
No, said Hermione at once, have you?
Just now, before lunch, said George. Charms.
What was it like? Harry and Hermione asked together.
Fred shrugged.
Not that bad. Umbridge just lurked in the corner making notes on
a clipboard. You know what Flitwicks like, he treated her like a guest,
didnt seem to bother him at all. She didnt say much. Asked Alicia a
couple of questions about what the classes are normally like, Alicia
told her they were really good, that was it.
I cant see old Flitwick getting marked down, said George, he
usually gets everyone through their exams all right.
Whove you got this afternoon? Fred asked Harry.
Trelawney 
A T if ever I saw one 
 and Umbridge herself.
Well, be a good boy and keep your temper with Umbridge today,
said George. Angelinall do her nut if you miss any more Quidditch
practices.
But Harry did not have to wait for Defense Against the Dark Arts


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
to meet Professor Umbridge. He was pulling out his dream diary in a
seat at the very back of the shadowy Divination room when Ron el
bowed him in the ribs and, looking round, he saw Professor Umbridge
emerging through the trapdoor in the floor. The class, which had been
talking cheerily, fell silent at once. The abrupt fall in the noise level
made Professor Trelawney, who had been wafting about handing out
Dream Oracles, look round.
Good afternoon, Professor Trelawney, said Professor Umbridge
with her wide smile. You received my note, I trust? Giving the time
and date of your inspection?
Professor Trelawney nodded curtly and, looking very disgruntled,
turned her back on Professor Umbridge and continued to give out
books. Still smiling, Professor Umbridge grasped the back of the near
est armchair and pulled it to the front of the class so that it was a few
inches behind Professor Trelawneys seat. She then sat down, took her
clipboard from her flowery bag, and looked up expectantly, waiting
for the class to begin.
Professor Trelawney pulled her shawls tight about her with slightly
trembling hands and surveyed the class through her hugely magnify
ing lenses. We shall be continuing our study of prophetic dreams to
day, she said in a brave attempt at her usual mystic tones, though her
voice shook slightly. Divide into pairs, please, and interpret each
others latest nighttime visions with the aid of the Oracle.
She made as though to sweep back to her seat, saw Professor Um
bridge sitting right beside it, and immediately veered left toward Par
vati and Lavender, who were already deep in discussion about Parvatis
most recent dream.
Harry opened his copy of The Dream Oracle, watching Umbridge
covertly. She was making notes on her clipboard now. After a few min
utes she got to her feet and began to pace the room in Trelawneys
wake, listening to her conversations with students and posing ques
tions here and there. Harry bent his head hurriedly over his book.


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
Think of a dream, quick, he told Ron, in case the old toad
comes our way.
I did it last time, Ron protested, its your turn, you tell me one.
Oh, I dunno . . . said Harry desperately, who could not remem
ber dreaming anything at all over the last few days. Lets say I dreamed
I was . . . drowning Snape in my cauldron. Yeah, thatll do. . . .
Ron chortled as he opened his Dream Oracle.
Okay, weve got to add your age to the date you had the dream, the
number of letters in the subject . . . would that be drowning or caul
dron or Snape?
It doesnt matter, pick any of them, said Harry, chancing a glance
behind him. Professor Umbridge was now standing at Professor Tre
lawneys shoulder making notes while the Divination teacher ques
tioned Neville about his dream diary.
What night did you dream this again? Ron said, immersed in
calculations.
I dunno, last night, whenever you like, Harry told him, trying to
listen to what Umbridge was saying to Professor Trelawney. They were
only a table away from him and Ron now. Professor Umbridge was
making another note on her clipboard and Professor Trelawney was
looking extremely put out.
Now, said Umbridge, looking up at Trelawney, youve been in
this post how long, exactly?
Professor Trelawney scowled at her, arms crossed and shoulders
hunched as though wishing to protect herself as much as possible
from the indignity of the inspection. After a slight pause in which she
seemed to decide that the question was not so offensive that she could
reasonably ignore it, she said in a deeply resentful tone, Nearly six
teen years.
Quite a period, said Professor Umbridge, making a note on her
clipboard. So it was Professor Dumbledore who appointed you?
Thats right, said Professor Trelawney shortly.


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
Professor Umbridge made another note.
And you are a greatgreatgranddaughter of the celebrated Seer
Cassandra Trelawney?
Yes, said Professor Trelawney, holding her head a little higher.
Another note on the clipboard.
But I think  correct me if I am mistaken  that you are the
first in your family since Cassandra to be possessed of second sight?
These things often skip  er  three generations, said Professor
Trelawney.
Professor Umbridges toadlike smile widened.
Of course, she said sweetly, making yet another note. Well, if
you could just predict something for me, then?
She looked up inquiringly, still smiling. Professor Trelawney had
stiffened as though unable to believe her ears.
I dont understand you, said Professor Trelawney, clutching con
vulsively at the shawl around her scrawny neck.
Id like you to make a prediction for me, said Professor Umbridge
very clearly.
Harry and Ron were not the only people watching and listening
sneakily from behind their books now most of the class were staring
transfixed at Professor Trelawney as she drew herself up to her full
height, her beads and bangles clinking.
The Inner Eye does not See upon command! she said in scandal
ized tones.
I see, said Professor Umbridge softly, making yet another note on
her clipboard.
I  but  but . . . wait! said Professor Trelawney suddenly, in
an attempt at her usual ethereal voice, though the mystical effect was
ruined somewhat by the way it was shaking with anger. I . . . I think
I do see something . . . something that concerns you. . . . Why, I sense
something . . . something dark . . . some grave peril . . .


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
Professor Trelawney pointed a shaking finger at Professor Um
bridge who continued to smile blandly at her, eyebrows raised.
I am afraid . . . I am afraid that you are in grave danger! Professor
Trelawney finished dramatically.
There was a pause. Professor Umbridges eyebrows were still raised.
Right, she said softly, scribbling on her clipboard once more.
Well, if thats really the best you can do . . .
She turned away, leaving Professor Trelawney standing rooted
to the spot, her chest heaving. Harry caught Rons eye and knew that
Ron was thinking exactly the same as he was They both knew
that Professor Trelawney was an old fraud, but on the other hand,
they loathed Umbridge so much that they felt very much on Tre
lawneys side  until she swooped down on them a few seconds
later, that was.
Well? she said, snapping her long fingers under Harrys nose, un
characteristically brisk. Let me see the start youve made on your
dream diary, please.
And by the time she had interpreted Harrys dreams at the top of
her voice all of which, even the ones that involved eating porridge,
apparently foretold a gruesome and early death, he was feeling much
less sympathetic toward her. All the while, Professor Umbridge stood
a few feet away, making notes on that clipboard, and when the bell
rang she descended the silver ladder first so that she was waiting for
them all when they reached their Defense Against the Dark Arts les
son ten minutes later.
She was humming and smiling to herself when they entered the
room. Harry and Ron told Hermione, who had been in Arithmancy,
exactly what had happened in Divination while they all took out their
copies of Defensive Magical Theory, but before Hermione could ask
any questions Professor Umbridge had called them all to order and si
lence fell.


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
Wands away, she instructed them all smilingly, and those people
who had been hopeful enough to take them out sadly returned them to
their bags. As we finished chapter one last lesson, I would like you all to
turn to page nineteen today and commence chapter two, Common De
fensive Theories and Their Derivation. There will be no need to talk.
Still smiling her wide, selfsatisfied smile, she sat down at her desk.
The class gave an audible sigh as it turned, as one, to page nineteen.
Harry wondered dully whether there were enough chapters in the
book to keep them reading through all this years lessons and was on
the point of checking the contents when he noticed that Hermione
had her hand in the air again.
Professor Umbridge had noticed too, and what was more, she
seemed to have worked out a strategy for just such an eventuality. In
stead of trying to pretend she had not noticed Hermione, she got to
her feet and walked around the front row of desks until they were
facetoface, then she bent down and whispered, so that the rest of the
class could not hear, What is it this time, Miss Granger?
Ive already read chapter two, said Hermione.
Well then, proceed to chapter three.
Ive read that too. Ive read the whole book.
Professor Umbridge blinked but recovered her poise almost
instantly.
Well, then, you should be able to tell me what Slinkhard says
about counterjinxes in chapter fifteen.
He says that counterjinxes are improperly named, said Hermione
promptly. He says counterjinx is just a name people give their jinxes
when they want to make them sound more acceptable.
Professor Umbridge raised her eyebrows, and Harry knew she was
impressed against her will.
But I disagree, Hermione continued.
Professor Umbridges eyebrows rose a little higher and her gaze be
came distinctly colder.


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
You disagree?
Yes, I do, said Hermione, who, unlike Umbridge, was not whis
pering, but speaking in a clear, carrying voice that had by now attracted
the rest of the classs attention. Mr. Slinkhard doesnt like jinxes, does
he? But I think they can be very useful when theyre used defensively.
Oh, you do, do you? said Professor Umbridge, forgetting to
whisper and straightening up. Well, Im afraid it is Mr. Slinkhards
opinion, and not yours, that matters within this classroom, Miss
Granger.
But  Hermione began.
That is enough, said Professor Umbridge. She walked back to the
front of the class and stood before them, all the jauntiness she had
shown at the beginning of the lesson gone. Miss Granger, I am going
to take five points from Gryffindor House.
There was an outbreak of muttering at this.
What for? said Harry angrily.
Dont you get involved! Hermione whispered urgently to him.
For disrupting my class with pointless interruptions, said Profes
sor Umbridge smoothly. I am here to teach you using a Ministry
approved method that does not include inviting students to give their
opinions on matters about which they understand very little. Your pre
vious teachers in this subject may have allowed you more license, but
as none of them  with the possible exception of Professor Quirrell,
who did at least appear to have restricted himself to ageappropriate
subjects  would have passed a Ministry inspection 
Yeah, Quirrell was a great teacher, said Harry loudly, there was
just that minor drawback of him having Lord Voldemort sticking out
of the back of his head.
This pronouncement was followed by one of the loudest silences
Harry had ever heard. Then 
I think another weeks detentions would do you some good, Mr.
Potter, said Umbridge sleekly.


CHAPTER FIFTEEN



The cut on the back of Harrys hand had barely healed and by the
following morning, it was bleeding again. He did not complain dur
ing the evenings detention he was determined not to give Umbridge
the satisfaction over and over again he wrote I must not tell lies and not
a sound escaped his lips, though the cut deepened with every letter.
The very worst part of this second weeks worth of detentions was,
just as George had predicted, Angelinas reaction. She cornered him
just as he arrived at the Gryffindor table for breakfast on Tuesday and
shouted so loudly that Professor McGonagall came sweeping down
upon the pair of them from the staff table.
Miss Johnson, how dare you make such a racket in the Great Hall!
Five points from Gryffindor!
But Professor  hes gone and landed himself in detention
again 
Whats this, Potter? said Professor McGonagall sharply, rounding
on Harry. Detention? From whom?
From Professor Umbridge, muttered Harry, not meeting Profes
sor McGonagalls beady, squareframed eyes.
Are you telling me, she said, lowering her voice so that the group
of curious Ravenclaws behind them could not hear, that after the
warning I gave you last Monday you lost your temper in Professor
Umbridges class again?
Yes, Harry muttered, speaking to the floor.
Potter, you must get a grip on yourself! You are heading for seri
ous trouble! Another five points from Gryffindor!
But  what? Professor, no! Harry said, furious at this injustice.
Im already being punished by her, why do you have to take points as
well?
Because detentions do not appear to have any effect on you what


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
soever! said Professor McGonagall tartly. No, not another word of
complaint, Potter! And as for you, Miss Johnson, you will confine
your shouting matches to the Quidditch pitch in future or risk losing
the team Captaincy!
She strode back toward the staff table. Angelina gave Harry a look
of deepest disgust and stalked away, upon which Harry flung himself
onto the bench beside Ron, fuming.
Shes taken points off Gryffindor because Im having my hand
sliced open every night! How is that fair, how?
I know, mate, said Ron sympathetically, tipping bacon onto
Harrys plate, shes bang out of order.
Hermione, however, merely rustled the pages of her Daily Prophet
and said nothing.
You think McGonagall was right, do you? said Harry angrily to
the picture of Cornelius Fudge obscuring Hermiones face.
I wish she hadnt taken points from you, but I think shes right to
warn you not to lose your temper with Umbridge, said Hermiones
voice, while Fudge gesticulated forcefully from the front page, clearly
giving some kind of speech.
Harry did not speak to Hermione all through Charms, but when
they entered Transfiguration he forgot his anger Professor Umbridge
and her clipboard were sitting in a corner and the sight of her drove
the memory of breakfast right out of his head.
Excellent, whispered Ron, as they sat down in their usual seats.
Lets see Umbridge get what she deserves.
Professor McGonagall marched into the room without giving the
slightest indication that she knew Professor Umbridge was there.
That will do, she said and silence fell immediately. Mr. Finni
gan, kindly come here and hand back the homework  Miss Brown,
please take this box of mice  dont be silly, girl, they wont hurt
you  and hand one to each student 


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
Hem, hem, said Professor Umbridge, employing the same silly
little cough she had used to interrupt Dumbledore on the first night
of term. Professor McGonagall ignored her. Seamus handed back
Harrys essay Harry took it without looking at him and saw, to his
relief, that he had managed an A.
Right then, everyone, listen closely  Dean Thomas, if you do
that to the mouse again I shall put you in detention  most of you
have now successfully vanished your snails and even those who were
left with a certain amount of shell have the gist of the spell. Today we
shall be 
Hem, hem, said Professor Umbridge.
Yes? said Professor McGonagall, turning round, her eyebrows so
close together they seemed to form one long, severe line.
I was just wondering, Professor, whether you received my note
telling you of the date and time of your inspec 
Obviously I received it, or I would have asked you what you are
doing in my classroom, said Professor McGonagall, turning her back
firmly on Professor Umbridge. Many of the students exchanged looks
of glee. As I was saying, today we shall be practicing the altogether
more difficult vanishment of mice. Now, the Vanishing Spell 
Hem, hem.
I wonder, said Professor McGonagall in cold fury, turning on
Professor Umbridge, how you expect to gain an idea of my usual
teaching methods if you continue to interrupt me? You see, I do not
generally permit people to talk when I am talking.
Professor Umbridge looked as though she had just been slapped in
the face. She did not speak, but straightened the parchment on her
clipboard and began scribbling furiously. Looking supremely uncon
cerned, Professor McGonagall addressed the class once more.
As I was saying, the Vanishing Spell becomes more difficult with
the complexity of the animal to be vanished. The snail, as an inverte
brate, does not present much of a challenge the mouse, as a mammal,


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
offers a much greater one. This is not, therefore, magic you can accom
plish with your mind on your dinner. So  you know the incantation,
let me see what you can do. . . .
How she can lecture me about not losing my temper with
Umbridge! Harry said to Ron under his voice, but he was grinning
his anger with Professor McGonagall had quite evaporated.
Professor Umbridge did not follow Professor McGonagall around
the class as she had followed Professor Trelawney perhaps she thought
that Professor McGonagall would not permit it. She did, however,
take many more notes while she sat in her corner, and when Professor
McGonagall finally told them all to pack away, rose with a grim ex
pression on her face.
Well, its a start, said Ron, holding up a long, wriggling mouse
tail and dropping it back into the box Lavender was passing around.
As they filed out of the classroom, Harry saw Professor Umbridge
approach the teachers desk he nudged Ron, who nudged Hermione
in turn, and the three of them deliberately fell back to eavesdrop.
How long have you been teaching at Hogwarts? Professor Um
bridge asked.
Thirtynine years this December, said Professor McGonagall
brusquely, snapping her bag shut.
Professor Umbridge made a note.
Very well, she said, you will receive the results of your inspection
in ten days time.
I can hardly wait, said Professor McGonagall in a coldly indiffer
ent voice, and she strode off toward the door. Hurry up, you three,
she added, sweeping Harry, Ron, and Hermione before her. Harry
could not help giving her a faint smile and could have sworn he re
ceived one in return.
He had thought that the next time he would see Umbridge would
be in his detention that evening, but he was wrong. When they walked
down the lawns toward the forest for Care of Magical Creatures, they


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
found her and her clipboard waiting for them beside Professor
GrubblyPlank.
You do not usually take this class, is that correct? Harry heard her
ask as they arrived at the trestle table where the group of captive
bowtruckles were scrabbling around for wood lice like so many living
twigs.
Quite correct, said Professor GrubblyPlank, hands behind her
back and bouncing on the balls of her feet. I am a substitute teacher
standing in for Professor Hagrid.
Harry exchanged uneasy looks with Ron and Hermione. Malfoy
was whispering with Crabbe and Goyle he would surely love this op
portunity to tell tales on Hagrid to a member of the Ministry.
Hmm, said Professor Umbridge, dropping her voice, though
Harry could still hear her quite clearly, I wonder  the headmaster
seems strangely reluctant to give me any information on the matter 
can you tell me what is causing Professor Hagrids very extended leave
of absence?
Harry saw Malfoy look up eagerly.
 Fraid I cant, said Professor GrubblyPlank breezily. Dont
know anything more about it than you do. Got an owl from Dumble
dore, would I like a couple of weeks teaching work, accepted  thats
as much as I know. Well . . . shall I get started then?
Yes, please do, said Professor Umbridge, scribbling upon her
clipboard.
Umbridge took a different tack in this class and wandered among
the students, questioning them on magical creatures. Most people
were able to answer well and Harrys spirits lifted somewhat at least
the class was not letting Hagrid down.
Overall, said Professor Umbridge, returning to Professor Grubbly
Planks side after a lengthy interrogation of Dean Thomas, how do
you, as a temporary member of staff  an objective outsider, I suppose


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
you might say  how do you find Hogwarts? Do you feel you receive
enough support from the school management?
Oh, yes, Dumbledores excellent, said Professor GrubblyPlank
heartily. No, Im very happy with the way things are run, very happy
indeed.
Looking politely incredulous, Umbridge made a tiny note on her
clipboard and went on, And what are you planning to cover with this
class this year  assuming, of course, that Professor Hagrid does not
return?
Oh, Ill take them through the creatures that most often come up
in O.W.L., said Professor GrubblyPlank. Not much left to do 
theyve studied unicorns and nifflers, I thought wed cover porlocks and
kneazles, make sure they can recognize crups and knarls, you know. . . .
Well, you seem to know what youre doing, at any rate, said Pro
fessor Umbridge, making a very obvious tick on her clipboard. Harry
did not like the emphasis she put on you and liked it even less when
she put her next question to Goyle Now, I hear there have been in
juries in this class?
Goyle gave a stupid grin. Malfoy hastened to answer the question.
That was me, he said. I was slashed by a hippogriff.
A hippogriff? said Professor Umbridge, now scribbling frantically.
Only because he was too stupid to listen to what Hagrid told him
to do, said Harry angrily.
Both Ron and Hermione groaned. Professor Umbridge turned her
head slowly in Harrys direction.
Another nights detention, I think, she said softly. Well, thank
you very much, Professor GrubblyPlank, I think thats all I need
here. You will be receiving the results of your inspection within ten
days.
Jolly good, said Professor GrubblyPlank, and Professor Um
bridge set off back across the lawn to the castle.


CHAPTER FIFTEEN



It was nearly midnight when Harry left Umbridges office that night,
his hand now bleeding so severely that it was staining the scarf he had
wrapped around it. He expected the common room to be empty when
he returned, but Ron and Hermione had sat up waiting for him. He
was pleased to see them, especially as Hermione was disposed to be
sympathetic rather than critical.
Here, she said anxiously, pushing a small bowl of yellow liquid
toward him, soak your hand in that, its a solution of strained and
pickled murtlap tentacles, it should help.
Harry placed his bleeding, aching hand into the bowl and experi
enced a wonderful feeling of relief. Crookshanks curled around his
legs, purring loudly, and then leapt into his lap and settled down.
Thanks, he said gratefully, scratching behind Crookshankss ears
with his left hand.
I still reckon you should complain about this, said Ron in a low
voice.
No, said Harry flatly.
McGonagall would go nuts if she knew 
Yeah, she probably would, said Harry. And how long dyou
reckon itd take Umbridge to pass another Decree saying anyone who
complains about the High Inquisitor gets sacked immediately?
Ron opened his mouth to retort but nothing came out and after a
moment he closed it again in a defeated sort of way.
Shes an awful woman, said Hermione in a small voice. Awful.
You know, I was just saying to Ron when you came in . . . weve got to
do something about her.
I suggested poison, said Ron grimly.
No . . . I mean, something about what a dreadful teacher she is,
and how were not going to learn any defense from her at all, said
Hermione.


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
Well, what can we do about that? said Ron, yawning.  S too late,
isnt it? She got the job, shes here to stay, Fudgell make sure of that.
Well, said Hermione tentatively. You know, I was thinking to
day. . . . She shot a slightly nervous look at Harry and then plunged on,
I was thinking that  maybe the times come when we should just 
just do it ourselves.
Do what ourselves? said Harry suspiciously, still floating his hand
in the essence of murtlap tentacles.
Well  learn Defense Against the Dark Arts ourselves, said Her
mione.
Come off it, groaned Ron. You want us to do extra work? Dyou
realize Harry and I are behind on homework again and its only the
second week?
But this is much more important than homework! said Hermione.
Harry and Ron goggled at her.
I didnt think there was anything in the universe more important
than homework, said Ron.
Dont be silly, of course there is! said Hermione, and Harry saw,
with an ominous feeling, that her face was suddenly alight with the
kind of fervor that S.P.E.W. usually inspired in her. Its about prepar
ing ourselves, like Harry said in Umbridges first lesson, for whats
waiting out there. Its about making sure we really can defend our
selves. If we dont learn anything for a whole year 
We cant do much by ourselves, said Ron in a defeated voice. I
mean, all right, we can go and look jinxes up in the library and try and
practice them, I suppose 
No, I agree, weve gone past the stage where we can just learn
things out of books, said Hermione. We need a teacher, a proper
one, who can show us how to use the spells and correct us if were go
ing wrong.
If youre talking about Lupin . . . Harry began.
No, no, Im not talking about Lupin, said Hermione. Hes too


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
busy with the Order and anyway, the most we could see him is during
Hogsmeade weekends and thats not nearly often enough.
Who, then? said Harry, frowning at her.
Hermione heaved a very deep sigh.
Isnt it obvious? she said. Im talking about you, Harry.
There was a moments silence. A light night breeze rattled the win
dowpanes behind Ron and the fire guttered.
About me what? said Harry.
Im talking about you teaching us Defense Against the Dark Arts.
Harry stared at her. Then he turned to Ron, ready to exchange the
exasperated looks they sometimes shared when Hermione elaborated
on farfetched schemes like S.P.E.W. To Harrys consternation, how
ever, Ron did not look exasperated. He was frowning slightly, appar
ently thinking. Then he said, Thats an idea.
Whats an idea? said Harry.
You, said Ron. Teaching us to do it.
But . . .
Harry was grinning now, sure the pair of them were pulling his leg.
But Im not a teacher, I cant 
Harry, youre the best in the year at Defense Against the Dark
Arts, said Hermione.
Me? said Harry, now grinning more broadly than ever. No Im
not, youve beaten me in every test 
Actually, I havent, said Hermione coolly. You beat me in our
third year  the only year we both sat the test and had a teacher who
actually knew the subject. But Im not talking about test results,
Harry. Look what youve done!
How dyou mean?
You know what, Im not sure I want someone this stupid teaching
me, Ron said to Hermione, smirking slightly. He turned to Harry.
Lets think, he said, pulling a face like Goyle concentrating. Uh . . .
first year  you saved the Stone from YouKnowWho.


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
But that was luck, said Harry, that wasnt skill 
Second year, Ron interrupted, you killed the basilisk and de
stroyed Riddle.
Yeah, but if Fawkes hadnt turned up I 
Third year, said Ron, louder still, you fought off about a hun
dred dementors at once 
You know that was a fluke, if the TimeTurner hadnt 
Last year, Ron said, almost shouting now, you fought off You
KnowWho again 
Listen to me! said Harry, almost angrily, because Ron and
Hermione were both smirking now. Just listen to me, all right? It
sounds great when you say it like that, but all that stuff was luck  I
didnt know what I was doing half the time, I didnt plan any of it, I
just did whatever I could think of, and I nearly always had help 
Ron and Hermione were still smirking and Harry felt his temper
rise he wasnt even sure why he was feeling so angry.
Dont sit there grinning like you know better than I do, I was
there, wasnt I? he said heatedly. I know what went on, all right? And
I didnt get through any of that because I was brilliant at Defense
Against the Dark Arts, I got through it all because  because help
came at the right time, or because I guessed right  but I just blun
dered through it all, I didnt have a clue what I was doing  STOP
LAUGHING!
The bowl of murtlap essence fell to the floor and smashed. He be
came aware that he was on his feet, though he couldnt remember
standing up. Crookshanks streaked away under a sofa Ron and
Hermiones smiles had vanished.
You dont know what its like! You  neither of you  youve never
had to face him, have you? You think its just memorizing a bunch of
spells and throwing them at him, like youre in class or something?
The whole time you know theres nothing between you and dying ex
cept your own  your own brain or guts or whatever  like you can


CHAPTER FIFTEEN
think straight when you know youre about a second from being mur
dered, or tortured, or watching your friends die  theyve never
taught us that in their classes, what its like to deal with things like
that  and you two sit there acting like Im a clever little boy to be
standing here, alive, like Diggory was stupid, like he messed up 
you just dont get it, that could just as easily have been me, it would
have been if Voldemort hadnt needed me 
We werent saying anything like that, mate, said Ron, looking
aghast. We werent having a go at Diggory, we didnt  youve got
the wrong end of the 
He looked helplessly at Hermione, whose face was stricken.
Harry, she said timidly, dont you see? This . . . this is exactly
why we need you. . . . We need to know what its rreally like . . . fac
ing him . . . facing VVoldemort.
It was the first time she had ever said Voldemorts name, and it was
this, more than anything else, that calmed Harry. Still breathing hard,
he sank back into his chair, becoming aware as he did so that his hand
was throbbing horribly again. He wished he had not smashed the
bowl of murtlap essence.
Well . . . think about it, said Hermione quietly. Please?
Harry could not think of anything to say. He was feeling ashamed
of his outburst already. He nodded, hardly aware of what he was
agreeing to.
Hermione stood up.
Well, Im off to bed, she said in a voice that was clearly as natural
as she could make it. Erm . . . night.
Ron had gotten to his feet too.
Coming? he said awkwardly to Harry.
Yeah, said Harry. In . . . in a minute. Ill just clear this up.
He indicated the smashed bowl on the floor. Ron nodded and left.
Reparo, Harry muttered, pointing his wand at the broken pieces


THE HOGWARTS
HIGH INQUISITOR
of china. They flew back together, good as new, but there was no re
turning the murtlap essence to the bowl.
He was suddenly so tired that he was tempted to sink back into his
armchair and sleep there, but instead he got to his feet and followed
Ron upstairs. His restless night was punctuated once more by dreams
of long corridors and locked doors, and he awoke next day with his
scar prickling again.


C H A P T E R S I X T E E N
IN THE HOGS HEAD
H
ermione made no mention of Harry giving Defense Against
the Dark Arts lessons for two whole weeks after her original
suggestion. Harrys detentions with Umbridge were finally over he
doubted whether the words now etched on the back of his hand
would ever fade entirely Ron had had four more Quidditch practices
and not been shouted at during the last two and all three of them had
managed to vanish their mice in Transfiguration Hermione had actu
ally progressed to vanishing kittens, before the subject was broached
again, on a wild, blustery evening at the end of September, when the
three of them were sitting in the library, looking up potion ingredients
for Snape.
I was wondering, Hermione said suddenly, whether youd
thought any more about Defense Against the Dark Arts, Harry.
 Course I have, said Harry grumpily. Cant forget it, can we,
with that hag teaching us 
I meant the idea Ron and I had  Ron cast her an alarmed,
threatening kind of look she frowned at him  oh, all right, the
idea I had, then  about you teaching us.


IN THE HOGS HEAD
Harry did not answer at once. He pretended to be perusing a page
of Asiatic AntiVenoms, because he did not want to say what was in his
mind.
The fact was that he had given the matter a great deal of thought
over the past fortnight. Sometimes it seemed an insane idea, just as it
had on the night Hermione had proposed it, but at others, he had
found himself thinking about the spells that had served him best in his
various encounters with Dark creatures and Death Eaters  found
himself, in fact, subconsciously planning lessons. . . .
Well, he said slowly, when he could not pretend to find Asiatic
antivenoms interesting much longer, yeah, I  Ive thought about
it a bit.
And? said Hermione eagerly.
I dunno, said Harry, playing for time. He looked up at Ron.
I thought it was a good idea from the start, said Ron, who
seemed keener to join in this conversation now that he was sure that
Harry was not going to start shouting again.
Harry shifted uncomfortably in his chair.
You did listen to what I said about a load of it being luck, didnt
you?
Yes, Harry, said Hermione gently, but all the same, theres no
point pretending that youre not good at Defense Against the Dark
Arts, because you are. You were the only person last year who could
throw off the Imperius Curse completely, you can produce a Patronus,
you can do all sorts of stuff that fullgrown wizards cant, Viktor al
ways said 
Ron looked around at her so fast he appeared to crick his neck rub
bing it, he said, Yeah? What did Vicky say?
Ho ho, said Hermione in a bored voice. He said Harry knew
how to do stuff even he didnt, and he was in the final year at
Durmstrang.
Ron was looking at Hermione suspiciously.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Youre not still in contact with him, are you?
So what if I am? said Hermione coolly, though her face was a lit
tle pink. I can have a pen pal if I 
He didnt only want to be your pen pal, said Ron accusingly.
Hermione shook her head exasperatedly and, ignoring Ron, who
was continuing to watch her, said to Harry, Well, what do you think?
Will you teach us?
Just you and Ron, yeah?
Well, said Hermione, now looking a mite anxious again. Well
. . . now, dont fly off the handle again, Harry, please. . . . But I really
think you ought to teach anyone who wants to learn. I mean, were
talking about defending ourselves against VVoldemort  oh, dont
be pathetic, Ron  it doesnt seem fair if we dont offer the chance to
other people.
Harry considered this for a moment, then said, Yeah, but I doubt
anyone except you two would want to be taught by me. Im a nutter,
remember?
Well, I think you might be surprised how many people would be
interested in hearing what youve got to say, said Hermione seriously.
Look, she leaned toward him Ron, who was still watching her with
a frown on his face, leaned forward to listen too, you know the first
weekend in Octobers a Hogsmeade weekend? How would it be if we
tell anyone whos interested to meet us in the village and we can talk
it over?
Why do we have to do it outside school? said Ron.
Because, said Hermione, returning to the diagram of the Chinese
Chomping Cabbage she was copying, I dont think Umbridge would
be very happy if she found out what we were up to.
Harry had been looking forward to the weekend trip into Hogs
meade, but there was one thing worrying him. Sirius had maintained
a stony silence since he had appeared in the fire at the beginning of


IN THE HOGS HEAD
September Harry knew they had made him angry by saying that they
did not want him to come  but he still worried from time to time
that Sirius might throw caution to the winds and turn up anyway.
What were they going to do if the great black dog came bounding up
the street toward them in Hogsmeade, perhaps under the nose of
Draco Malfoy?
Well, you cant blame him for wanting to get out and about, said
Ron, when Harry discussed his fears with him and Hermione. I
mean, hes been on the run for over two years, hasnt he, and I know
that cant have been a laugh, but at least he was free, wasnt he? And
now hes just shut up all the time with that lunatic elf.
Hermione scowled at Ron, but otherwise ignored the slight on
Kreacher.
The trouble is, she said to Harry, until VVoldemort  oh for
heavens sake, Ron  comes out into the open, Sirius is going to have
to stay hidden, isnt he? I mean, the stupid Ministry isnt going to re
alize Sirius is innocent until they accept that Dumbledores been
telling the truth about him all along. And once the fools start catch
ing real Death Eaters again itll be obvious Sirius isnt one . . . I mean,
he hasnt got the Mark, for one thing.
I dont reckon hed be stupid enough to turn up, said Ron brac
ingly. Dumbledored go mad if he did and Sirius listens to Dumble
dore even if he doesnt like what he hears.
When Harry continued to look worried, Hermione said, Listen,
Ron and I have been sounding out people who we thought might
want to learn some proper Defense Against the Dark Arts, and there
are a couple who seem interested. Weve told them to meet us in
Hogsmeade.
Right, said Harry vaguely, his mind still on Sirius.
Dont worry, Harry, Hermione said quietly. Youve got enough
on your plate without Sirius too.
She was quite right, of course he was barely keeping up with his


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
homework, though he was doing much better now that he was no
longer spending every evening in detention with Umbridge. Ron was
even further behind with his work than Harry, because while they
both had Quidditch practices twice a week, Ron also had prefect du
ties. However, Hermione, who was taking more subjects than either of
them, had not only finished all her homework but was also finding
time to knit more elf clothes. Harry had to admit that she was getting
better it was now almost always possible to distinguish between the
hats and the socks.
The morning of the Hogsmeade visit dawned bright but windy. Af
ter breakfast they queued up in front of Filch, who matched their
names to the long list of students who had permission from their par
ents or guardian to visit the village. With a slight pang, Harry re
membered that if it hadnt been for Sirius, he would not have been
going at all.
When Harry reached Filch, the caretaker gave a great sniff as
though trying to detect a whiff of something from Harry. Then he
gave a curt nod that set his jowls aquiver again and Harry walked on,
out onto the stone steps and the cold, sunlit day.
Er  why was Filch sniffing you? asked Ron, as he, Harry, and
Hermione set off at a brisk pace down the wide drive to the gates.
I suppose he was checking for the smell of Dungbombs, said
Harry with a small laugh. I forgot to tell you . . .
And he recounted the story of sending his letter to Sirius and Filch
bursting in seconds later, demanding to see the letter. To his slight sur
prise, Hermione found this story highly interesting, much more, in
deed, than he did himself.
He said he was tipped off you were ordering Dungbombs? But
who had tipped him off?
I dunno, said Harry, shrugging. Maybe Malfoy, hed think it was
a laugh.
They walked between the tall stone pillars topped with winged


IN THE HOGS HEAD
boars and turned left onto the road into the village, the wind whip
ping their hair into their eyes.
Malfoy? said Hermione, very skeptically. Well . . . yes . . .
maybe . . .
And she remained deep in thought all the way into the outskirts of
Hogsmeade.
Where are we going anyway? Harry asked. The Three Broom
sticks?
Oh  no, said Hermione, coming out of her reverie, no, its al
ways packed and really noisy. Ive told the others to meet us in the
Hogs Head, that other pub, you know the one, its not on the main
road. I think its a bit . . . you know . . . dodgy . . . but students dont
normally go in there, so I dont think well be overheard.
They walked down the main street past Zonkos Joke Shop, where
they were unsurprised to see Fred, George, and Lee Jordan, past the
post office, from which owls issued at regular intervals, and turned up
a side street at the top of which stood a small inn. A battered wooden
sign hung from a rusty bracket over the door, with a picture upon it of
a wild boars severed head leaking blood onto the white cloth around
it. The sign creaked in the wind as they approached. All three of them
hesitated outside the door.
Well, come on, said Hermione slightly nervously. Harry led the
way inside.
It was not at all like the Three Broomsticks, whose large bar gave an
impression of gleaming warmth and cleanliness. The Hogs Head bar
comprised one small, dingy, and very dirty room that smelled strongly
of something that might have been goats. The bay windows were so
encrusted with grime that very little daylight could permeate the
room, which was lit instead with the stubs of candles sitting on rough
wooden tables. The floor seemed at first glance to be earthy, though as
Harry stepped onto it he realized that there was stone beneath what
seemed to be the accumulated filth of centuries.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Harry remembered Hagrid mentioning this pub in his first year
Yeh get a lot o funny folk in the Hogs Head, he had said, explaining
how he had won a dragons egg from a hooded stranger there. At the
time Harry had wondered why Hagrid had not found it odd that the
stranger kept his face hidden throughout their encounter now he saw
that keeping your face hidden was something of a fashion in the Hogs
Head. There was a man at the bar whose whole head was wrapped in
dirty gray bandages, though he was still managing to gulp endless
glasses of some smoking, fiery substance through a slit over his mouth.
Two figures shrouded in hoods sat at a table in one of the windows
Harry might have thought them dementors if they had not been talk
ing in strong Yorkshire accents in a shadowy corner beside the fireplace
sat a witch with a thick, black veil that fell to her toes. They could just
see the tip of her nose because it caused the veil to protrude slightly.
I dont know about this, Hermione, Harry muttered, as they
crossed to the bar. He was looking particularly at the heavily veiled
witch. Has it occurred to you Umbridge might be under that?
Hermione cast an appraising eye at the veiled figure.
Umbridge is shorter than that woman, she said quietly. And
anyway, even if Umbridge does come in here theres nothing she can
do to stop us, Harry, because Ive double and triplechecked the
school rules. Were not outofbounds I specifically asked Professor
Flitwick whether students were allowed to come in the Hogs Head,
and he said yes, but he advised me strongly to bring our own glasses.
And Ive looked up everything I can think of about study groups and
homework groups and theyre definitely allowed. I just dont think its
a good idea if we parade what were doing.
No, said Harry dryly, especially as its not exactly a homework
group youre planning, is it?
The barman sidled toward them out of a back room. He was a
grumpylooking old man with a great deal of long gray hair and
beard. He was tall and thin and looked vaguely familiar to Harry.


IN THE HOGS HEAD
What? he grunted.
Three butterbeers, please, said Hermione.
The man reached beneath the counter and pulled up three very
dusty, very dirty bottles, which he slammed on the bar.
Six Sickles, he said.
Ill get them, said Harry quickly, passing over the silver. The bar
mans eyes traveled over Harry, resting for a fraction of a second on his
scar. Then he turned away and deposited Harrys money in an ancient
wooden till whose drawer slid open automatically to receive it. Harry,
Ron, and Hermione retreated to the farthest table from the bar and
sat down, looking around, while the man in the dirty gray bandages
rapped the counter with his knuckles and received another smoking
drink from the barman.
You know what? Ron murmured, looking over at the bar with
enthusiasm. We could order anything we liked in here, I bet that
bloke would sell us anything, he wouldnt care. Ive always wanted to
try firewhisky 
You  are  a  prefect, snarled Hermione.
Oh, said Ron, the smile fading from his face. Yeah . . .
So who did you say is supposed to be meeting us? Harry asked,
wrenching open the rusty top of his butterbeer and taking a swig.
Just a couple of people, Hermione repeated, checking her watch
and then looking anxiously toward the door. I told them to be here
about now and Im sure they all know where it is  oh look, this
might be them now 
The door of the pub had opened. A thick band of dusty sunlight
split the room in two for a moment and then vanished, blocked by the
incoming rush of a crowd of people.
First came Neville with Dean and Lavender, who were closely fol
lowed by Parvati and Padma Patil with Harrys stomach did a back
flip Cho and one of her usually giggling girlfriends, then on her own
and looking so dreamy that she might have walked in by accident


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Luna Lovegood then Katie Bell, Alicia Spinnet, and Angelina John
son, Colin and Dennis Creevey, Ernie Macmillan, Justin Finch
Fletchley, Hannah Abbott, and a Hufflepuff girl with a long plait
down her back whose name Harry did not know three Ravenclaw
boys he was pretty sure were called Anthony Goldstein, Michael Cor
ner, and Terry Boot Ginny, followed by a tall skinny blond boy with
an upturned nose whom Harry recognized vaguely as being a member
of the Hufflepuff Quidditch team, and bringing up the rear, Fred and
George Weasley with their friend Lee Jordan, all three of whom were
carrying large paper bags crammed with Zonkos merchandise.
A couple of people? said Harry hoarsely to Hermione. A couple
of people?
Yes, well, the idea seemed quite popular, said Hermione happily.
Ron, do you want to pull up some more chairs?
The barman had frozen in the act of wiping out a glass with a rag
so filthy it looked as though it had never been washed. Possibly he had
never seen his pub so full.
Hi, said Fred, reaching the bar first and counting his companions
quickly. Could we have . . . twentyfive butterbeers, please?
The barman glared at him for a moment, then, throwing down
his rag irritably as though he had been interrupted in something very
important, he started passing up dusty butterbeers from under the
bar.
Cheers, said Fred, handing them out. Cough up, everyone, I
havent got enough gold for all of these. . . .
Harry watched numbly as the large chattering group took their
beers from Fred and rummaged in their robes to find coins. He could
not imagine what all these people had turned up for until the horrible
thought occurred to him that they might be expecting some kind of
speech, at which he rounded on Hermione.
What have you been telling people? he said in a low voice. What
are they expecting?


IN THE HOGS HEAD
Ive told you, they just want to hear what youve got to say, said
Hermione soothingly but Harry continued to look at her so furiously
that she added quickly, You dont have to do anything yet, Ill speak
to them first.
Hi, Harry, said Neville, beaming and taking a seat opposite
Harry.
Harry tried to smile back, but did not speak his mouth was excep
tionally dry. Cho had just smiled at him and sat down on Rons right.
Her friend, who had curly reddishblonde hair, did not smile, but
gave Harry a thoroughly mistrustful look that told Harry plainly that,
given her way, she would not be here at all.
In twos and threes the new arrivals settled around Harry, Ron, and
Hermione, some looking rather excited, others curious, Luna Love
good gazing dreamily into space. When everybody had pulled up a
chair, the chatter died out. Every eye was upon Harry.
Er, said Hermione, her voice slightly higher than usual out of
nerves. Well  er  hi.
The group focused its attention on her instead, though eyes con
tinued to dart back regularly to Harry.
Well . . . erm . . . well, you know why youre here. Erm . . . well,
Harry here had the idea  I mean  Harry had thrown her a sharp
look  I had the idea  that it might be good if people who
wanted to study Defense Against the Dark Arts  and I mean, really
study it, you know, not the rubbish that Umbridge is doing with
us  Hermiones voice became suddenly much stronger and more
confident  because nobody could call that Defense Against the
Dark Arts  Hear, hear, said Anthony Goldstein, and Hermione
looked heartened  well, I thought it would be good if we, well,
took matters into our own hands.
She paused, looked sideways at Harry, and went on, And by that I
mean learning how to defend ourselves properly, not just theory but
the real spells 


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
You want to pass your Defense Against the Dark Arts O.W.L. too
though, I bet? said Michael Corner.
Of course I do, said Hermione at once. But I want more than
that, I want to be properly trained in Defense because . . . because . . .
She took a great breath and finished, Because Lord Voldemorts
back.
The reaction was immediate and predictable. Chos friend shrieked
and slopped butterbeer down herself, Terry Boot gave a kind of invol
untary twitch, Padma Patil shuddered, and Neville gave an odd yelp
that he managed to turn into a cough. All of them, however, looked
fixedly, even eagerly, at Harry.
Well . . . thats the plan anyway, said Hermione. If you want to
join us, we need to decide how were going to 
Wheres the proof YouKnowWhos back? said the blond Huffle
puff player in a rather aggressive voice.
Well, Dumbledore believes it  Hermione began.
You mean, Dumbledore believes him, said the blond boy, nod
ding at Harry.
Who are you? said Ron rather rudely.
Zacharias Smith, said the boy, and I think weve got the right to
know exactly what makes him say YouKnowWhos back.
Look, said Hermione, intervening swiftly, thats really not what
this meeting was supposed to be about 
Its okay, Hermione, said Harry.
It had just dawned upon him why there were so many people there.
He felt that Hermione should have seen this coming. Some of these
people  maybe even most of them  had turned up in the hope of
hearing Harrys story firsthand.
What makes me say YouKnowWhos back? he asked, looking
Zacharias straight in the face. I saw him. But Dumbledore told the
whole school what happened last year, and if you didnt believe him,


IN THE HOGS HEAD
you dont believe me, and Im not wasting an afternoon trying to con
vince anyone.
The whole group seemed to have held its breath while Harry spoke.
Harry had the impression that even the barman was listening in. He
was wiping the same glass with the filthy rag it was becoming steadily
dirtier.
Zacharias said dismissively, All Dumbledore told us last year was
that Cedric Diggory got killed by YouKnowWho and that you
brought Diggorys body back to Hogwarts. He didnt give us details,
he didnt tell us exactly how Diggory got murdered, I think wed all
like to know 
If youve come to hear exactly what it looks like when Voldemort
murders someone I cant help you, Harry said. His temper, always so
close to the surface these days, was rising again. He did not take his
eyes from Zacharias Smiths aggressive face, determined not to look at
Cho. I dont want to talk about Cedric Diggory, all right? So if thats
what youre here for, you might as well clear out.
He cast an angry look in Hermiones direction. This was, he felt, all
her fault she had decided to display him like some sort of freak and of
course they had all turned up to see just how wild his story was. . . .
But none of them left their seats, not even Zacharias Smith, though he
continued to gaze intently at Harry.
So, said Hermione, her voice very highpitched again. So . . .
like I was saying . . . if you want to learn some defense, then we need
to work out how were going to do it, how often were going to meet,
and where were going to 
Is it true, interrupted the girl with the long plait down her back,
looking at Harry, that you can produce a Patronus?
There was a murmur of interest around the group at this.
Yeah, said Harry slightly defensively.
A corporeal Patronus?


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
The phrase stirred something in Harrys memory.
Er  you dont know Madam Bones, do you? he asked.
The girl smiled.
Shes my auntie, she said. Im Susan Bones. She told me about
your hearing. So  is it really true? You make a stag Patronus?
Yes, said Harry.
Blimey, Harry! said Lee, looking deeply impressed. I never knew
that!
Mum told Ron not to spread it around, said Fred, grinning at
Harry. She said you got enough attention as it was.
Shes not wrong, mumbled Harry and a couple of people
laughed. The veiled witch sitting alone shifted very slightly in her seat.
And did you kill a basilisk with that sword in Dumbledores of
fice? demanded Terry Boot. Thats what one of the portraits on the
wall told me when I was in there last year. . . .
Er  yeah, I did, yeah, said Harry.
Justin FinchFletchley whistled, the Creevey brothers exchanged
awestruck looks, and Lavender Brown said wow softly. Harry was
feeling slightly hot around the collar now he was determinedly look
ing anywhere but at Cho.
And in our first year, said Neville to the group at large, he saved
that Sorcerous Stone 
Sorcerers, hissed Hermione.
Yes, that, from YouKnowWho, finished Neville.
Hannah Abbotts eyes were as round as Galleons.
And thats not to mention, said Cho Harrys eyes snapped onto
her, she was looking at him, smiling his stomach did another somer
sault, all the tasks he had to get through in the Triwizard Tournament
last year  getting past dragons and merpeople and acromantulas and
things. . . .
There was a murmur of impressed agreement around the table.


IN THE HOGS HEAD
Harrys insides were squirming. He was trying to arrange his face so
that he did not look too pleased with himself. The fact that Cho had
just praised him made it much, much harder for him to say the thing
he had sworn to himself he would tell them.
Look, he said and everyone fell silent at once, I . . . I dont want
to sound like Im trying to be modest or anything, but . . . I had a lot
of help with all that stuff. . . .
Not with the dragon, you didnt, said Michael Corner at once.
That was a seriously cool bit of flying. . . .
Yeah, well  said Harry, feeling it would be churlish to disagree.
And nobody helped you get rid of those dementors this summer,
said Susan Bones.
No, said Harry, no, okay, I know I did bits of it without help,
but the point Im trying to make is 
Are you trying to weasel out of showing us any of this stuff? said
Zacharias Smith.
Heres an idea, said Ron loudly, before Harry could speak, why
dont you shut your mouth?
Perhaps the word weasel had affected Ron particularly strongly
in any case, he was now looking at Zacharias as though he would like
nothing better than to thump him. Zacharias flushed.
Well, weve all turned up to learn from him, and now hes telling
us he cant really do any of it, he said.
Thats not what he said, snarled Fred Weasley.
Would you like us to clean out your ears for you? inquired
George, pulling a long and lethallooking metal instrument from in
side one of the Zonkos bags.
Or any part of your body, really, were not fussy where we stick
this, said Fred.
Yes, well, said Hermione hastily, moving on . . . the point is, are
we agreed we want to take lessons from Harry?


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
There was a murmur of general agreement. Zacharias folded his
arms and said nothing, though perhaps this was because he was too
busy keeping an eye on the instrument in Georges hand.
Right, said Hermione, looking relieved that something had at
last been settled. Well, then, the next question is how often we do it.
I really dont think theres any point in meeting less than once a
week 
Hang on, said Angelina, we need to make sure this doesnt clash
with our Quidditch practice.
No, said Cho, nor with ours.
Nor ours, added Zacharias Smith.
Im sure we can find a night that suits everyone, said Hermione,
slightly impatiently, but you know, this is rather important, were
talking about learning to defend ourselves against VVoldemorts
Death Eaters 
Well said! barked Ernie Macmillan, whom Harry had been ex
pecting to speak long before this. Personally I think this is really im
portant, possibly more important than anything else well do this year,
even with our O.W.L.s coming up!
He looked around impressively, as though waiting for people to cry,
Surely not! When nobody spoke, he went on, I, personally, am at a
loss to see why the Ministry has foisted such a useless teacher upon us
at this critical period. Obviously they are in denial about the return of
YouKnowWho, but to give us a teacher who is trying to actively pre
vent us from using defensive spells 
We think the reason Umbridge doesnt want us trained in Defense
Against the Dark Arts, said Hermione, is that shes got some . . .
some mad idea that Dumbledore could use the students in the school
as a kind of private army. She thinks hed mobilize us against the
Ministry.
Nearly everybody looked stunned at this news everybody except


IN THE HOGS HEAD
Luna Lovegood, who piped up, Well, that makes sense. After all,
Cornelius Fudge has got his own private army.
What? said Harry, completely thrown by this unexpected piece
of information.
Yes, hes got an army of heliopaths, said Luna solemnly.
No, he hasnt, snapped Hermione.
Yes, he has, said Luna.
What are heliopaths? asked Neville, looking blank.
Theyre spirits of fire, said Luna, her protuberant eyes widening
so that she looked madder than ever. Great tall flaming creatures that
gallop across the ground burning everything in front of 
They dont exist, Neville, said Hermione tartly.
Oh yes they do! said Luna angrily.
Im sorry, but wheres the proof of that? snapped Hermione.
There are plenty of eyewitness accounts, just because youre so
narrowminded you need to have everything shoved under your nose
before you 
Hem, hem, said Ginny in such a good imitation of Professor Um
bridge that several people looked around in alarm and then laughed.
Werent we trying to decide how often were going to meet and get
Defense lessons?
Yes, said Hermione at once, yes, we were, youre right. . . .
Well, once a week sounds cool, said Lee Jordan.
As long as  began Angelina.
Yes, yes, we know about the Quidditch, said Hermione in a tense
voice. Well, the other thing to decide is where were going to
meet. . . .
This was rather more difficult the whole group fell silent.
Library? suggested Katie Bell after a few moments.
I cant see Madam Pince being too chuffed with us doing jinxes in
the library, said Harry.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Maybe an unused classroom? said Dean.
Yeah, said Ron, McGonagall might let us have hers, she did
when Harry was practicing for the Triwizard. . . .
But Harry was pretty certain that McGonagall would not be so ac
commodating this time. For all that Hermione had said about study
and homework groups being allowed, he had the distinct feeling this
one might be considered a lot more rebellious.
Right, well, well try to find somewhere, said Hermione. Well
send a message round to everybody when weve got a time and a place
for the first meeting.
She rummaged in her bag and produced parchment and a quill,
then hesitated, rather as though she was steeling herself to say
something.
II think everybody should write their name down, just so we
know who was here. But I also think, she took a deep breath, that
we all ought to agree not to shout about what were doing. So if you
sign, youre agreeing not to tell Umbridge  or anybody else  what
were up to.
Fred reached out for the parchment and cheerfully put down his
signature, but Harry noticed at once that several people looked less
than happy at the prospect of putting their names on the list.
Er . . . said Zacharias slowly, not taking the parchment that
George was trying to pass him. Well . . . Im sure Ernie will tell me
when the meeting is.
But Ernie was looking rather hesitant about signing too. Hermione
raised her eyebrows at him.
I  well, we are prefects, Ernie burst out. And if this list was
found . . . well, I mean to say . . . you said yourself, if Umbridge finds
out . . .
You just said this group was the most important thing youd do
this year, Harry reminded him.
I  yes, said Ernie, yes, I do believe that, its just . . .


IN THE HOGS HEAD
Ernie, do you really think Id leave that list lying around? said
Hermione testily.
No. No, of course not, said Ernie, looking slightly less anxious.
I  yes, of course Ill sign.
Nobody raised objections after Ernie, though Harry saw Chos
friend give her a rather reproachful look before adding her name.
When the last person  Zacharias  had signed, Hermione took
the parchment back and slipped it carefully into her bag. There was an
odd feeling in the group now. It was as though they had just signed
some kind of contract.
Well, times ticking on, said Fred briskly, getting to his feet.
George, Lee, and I have got items of a sensitive nature to purchase,
well be seeing you all later.
In twos and threes the rest of the group took their leave too. Cho
made rather a business of fastening the catch on her bag before leav
ing, her long dark curtain of hair swinging forward to hide her face,
but her friend stood beside her, arms folded, clicking her tongue, so
that Cho had little choice but to leave with her. As her friend ushered
her through the door, Cho looked back and waved at Harry.
Well, I think that went quite well, said Hermione happily, as she,
Harry, and Ron walked out of the Hogs Head into the bright sunlight
a few moments later, Harry and Ron still clutching their bottles of
butterbeer.
That Zacharias blokes a wart, said Ron, who was glowering after
the figure of Smith just discernible in the distance.
I dont like him much either, admitted Hermione, but he over
heard me talking to Ernie and Hannah at the Hufflepuff table and he
seemed really interested in coming, so what could I say? But the more
people the better really  I mean, Michael Corner and his friends
wouldnt have come if he hadnt been going out with Ginny 
Ron, who had been draining the last few drops from his butterbeer
bottle, gagged and sprayed butterbeer down his front.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Hes WHAT? said Ron, outraged, his ears now resembling curls
of raw beef. Shes going out with  my sisters going  what dyou
mean, Michael Corner?
Well, thats why he and his friends came, I think  well, theyre
obviously interested in learning defense, but if Ginny hadnt told
Michael what was going on 
When did this  when did she  ?
They met at the Yule Ball and they got together at the end of last
year, said Hermione composedly. They had turned into the High
Street and she paused outside Scrivenshafts Quill Shop, where there
was a handsome display of pheasantfeather quills in the window.
Hmm . . . I could do with a new quill.
She turned into the shop. Harry and Ron followed her.
Which one was Michael Corner? Ron demanded furiously.
The dark one, said Hermione.
I didnt like him, said Ron at once.
Big surprise, said Hermione under her breath.
But, said Ron, following Hermione along a row of quills in cop
per pots, I thought Ginny fancied Harry!
Hermione looked at him rather pityingly and shook her head.
Ginny used to fancy Harry, but she gave up on him months ago.
Not that she doesnt like you, of course, she added kindly to Harry
while she examined a long blackandgold quill.
Harry, whose head was still full of Chos parting wave, did not find
this subject quite as interesting as Ron, who was positively quivering
with indignation, but it did bring something home to him that until
now he had not really registered.
So thats why she talks now? he asked Hermione. She never used
to talk in front of me.
Exactly, said Hermione. Yes, I think Ill have this one. . . .
She went up to the counter and handed over fifteen Sickles and two
Knuts, Ron still breathing down her neck.


IN THE HOGS HEAD
Ron, she said severely as she turned and trod on his feet, this is
exactly why Ginny hasnt told you shes seeing Michael, she knew
youd take it badly. So dont harp on about it, for heavens sake.
What dyou mean, whos taking anything badly? Im not going to
harp on about anything . . .
Ron continued to chunter under his breath all the way down the
street. Hermione rolled her eyes at Harry and then said in an under
tone, while Ron was muttering imprecations about Michael Corner,
And talking about Michael and Ginny . . . what about Cho and
you?
What dyou mean? said Harry quickly.
It was as though boiling water was rising rapidly inside him a
burning sensation that was causing his face to smart in the cold 
had he been that obvious?
Well, said Hermione, smiling slightly, she just couldnt keep her
eyes off you, could she?
Harry had never before appreciated just how beautiful the village of
Hogsmeade was.


C H A P T E R S E V E N T E E N
EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
H
arry felt happier for the rest of the weekend than he had done
all term. He and Ron spent much of Sunday catching up
with all their homework again, and although this could hardly be
called fun, the last burst of autumn sunshine persisted, so rather than
sitting hunched over tables in the common room, they took their work
outside and lounged in the shade of a large beech tree on the edge of
the lake. Hermione, who of course was up to date with all her work,
brought more wool outside with her and bewitched her knitting nee
dles so that they flashed and clicked in midair beside her, producing
more hats and scarves.
The knowledge that they were doing something to resist Umbridge
and the Ministry, and that he was a key part of the rebellion, gave
Harry a feeling of immense satisfaction. He kept reliving Saturdays
meeting in his mind all those people, coming to him to learn Defense
Against the Dark Arts . . . and the looks on their faces as they had
heard some of the things he had done . . . and Cho praising his per
formance in the Triwizard Tournament. . . . The knowledge that all


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
those people did not think him a lying weirdo, but someone to be ad
mired, buoyed him up so much that he was still cheerful on Monday
morning, despite the imminent prospect of all his least favorite classes.
He and Ron headed downstairs from their dormitory together, dis
cussing Angelinas idea that they were to work on a new move called
the Sloth Grip Roll during that nights Quidditch practice, and not
until they were halfway across the sunlit common room did they no
tice the addition to the room that had already attracted the attention
of a small group of people.
A large sign had been affixed to the Gryffindor notice board, so
large that it covered everything else on there  the lists of second
hand spellbooks for sale, the regular reminders of school rules from
Argus Filch, the Quidditch team training schedule, the offers to barter
certain Chocolate Frog cards for others, the Weasleys new advertise
ment for testers, the dates of the Hogsmeade weekends, and the lost
andfound notices. The new sign was printed in large black letters and
there was a highly officiallooking seal at the bottom beside a neat
and curly signature.
 by order of 
The High Inquisitor of Hogwarts
All Student Organizations, Societies, Teams, Groups, and
Clubs are henceforth disbanded.
An Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club is hereby
defined as a regular meeting of three or more students.
Permission to reform may be sought from the High
Inquisitor Professor Umbridge.
No Student Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club
may exist without the knowledge and approval of the High
Inquisitor.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Any student found to have formed, or to belong to, an
Organization, Society, Team, Group, or Club that has not
been approved by the High Inquisitor will be expelled.
The above is in accordance with
Educational Decree Number Twentyfour.
Signed
high inquisitor
Harry and Ron read the notice over the heads of some anxious
looking second years.
Does this mean theyre going to shut down the Gobstones Club?
one of them asked his friend.
I reckon youll be okay with Gobstones, Ron said darkly, making
the second year jump. I dont think were going to be as lucky,
though, do you? he asked Harry as the second years hurried away.
Harry was reading the notice through again. The happiness that
had filled him since Saturday was gone. His insides were pulsing with
rage.
This isnt a coincidence, he said, his hands forming fists. She
knows.
She cant, said Ron at once.
There were people listening in that pub. And lets face it, we dont
know how many of the people who turned up we can trust. . . . Any
of them could have run off and told Umbridge. . . .
And he had thought they believed him, thought they even admired
him . . .
Zacharias Smith! said Ron at once, punching a fist into his hand.
Or  I thought that Michael Corner had a really shifty look too 


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
I wonder if Hermiones seen this yet? Harry said, looking around
at the door to the girls dormitories.
Lets go and tell her, said Ron. He bounded forward, pulled open
the door, and set off up the spiral staircase.
He was on the sixth stair when it happened. There was a loud, wail
ing, klaxonlike sound and the steps melted together to make a long,
smooth stone slide. There was a brief moment when Ron tried to keep
running, arms working madly like windmills, then he toppled over
backward and shot down the newly created slide, coming to rest on
his back at Harrys feet.
Er  I dont think were allowed in the girls dormitories, said
Harry, pulling Ron to his feet and trying not to laugh.
Two fourthyear girls came zooming gleefully down the stone slide.
Oooh, who tried to get upstairs? they giggled happily, leaping to
their feet and ogling Harry and Ron.
Me, said Ron, who was still rather disheveled. I didnt realize
that would happen. Its not fair! he added to Harry, as the girls
headed off for the portrait hole, still giggling madly. Hermiones al
lowed in our dormitory, how come were not allowed  ?
Well, its an oldfashioned rule, said Hermione, who had just slid
neatly onto a rug in front of them and was now getting to her feet,
but it says in Hogwarts, A History that the founders thought boys
were less trustworthy than girls. Anyway, why were you trying to get
in there?
To see you  look at this! said Ron, dragging her over to the no
tice board.
Hermiones eyes slid rapidly down the notice. Her expression be
came stony.
Someone must have blabbed to her! Ron said angrily.
They cant have done, said Hermione in a low voice.
Youre so naive, said Ron, you think just because youre all hon
orable and trustworthy 


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
No, they cant have done because I put a jinx on that piece of
parchment we all signed, said Hermione grimly. Believe me, if any
ones run off and told Umbridge, well know exactly who they are and
they will really regret it.
Whatll happen to them? said Ron eagerly.
Well, put it this way, said Hermione, itll make Eloise Midgens
acne look like a couple of cute freckles. Come on, lets get down to
breakfast and see what the others think. . . . I wonder whether this has
been put up in all the Houses?
It was immediately apparent on entering the Great Hall that Um
bridges sign had not only appeared in Gryffindor Tower. There was a
peculiar intensity about the chatter and an extra measure of move
ment in the Hall as people scurried up and down their tables confer
ring on what they had read. Harry, Ron, and Hermione had barely
taken their seats when Neville, Dean, Fred, George, and Ginny de
scended upon them.
Did you see it?
Dyou reckon she knows?
What are we going to do?
They were all looking at Harry. He glanced around to make sure
there were no teachers near them.
Were going to do it anyway, of course, he said quietly.
Knew youd say that, said George, beaming and thumping Harry
on the arm.
The prefects as well? said Fred, looking quizzically at Ron and
Hermione.
Of course, said Hermione coolly.
Here comes Ernie and Hannah Abbott, said Ron, looking over
his shoulder. And those Ravenclaw blokes and Smith . . . and no one
looks very spotty.
Hermione looked alarmed.
Never mind spots, the idiots cant come over here now, itll look


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
really suspicious  sit down! she mouthed to Ernie and Hannah,
gesturing frantically to them to rejoin the Hufflepuff table. Later!
Well  talk  to  you  later!
Ill tell Michael, said Ginny impatiently, swinging herself off her
bench. The fool, honestly . . .
She hurried off toward the Ravenclaw table Harry watched her go.
Cho was sitting not far away, talking to the curlyhaired friend she
had brought along to the Hogs Head. Would Umbridges notice scare
her off meeting them again?
But the full repercussions of the sign were not felt until they were
leaving the Great Hall for History of Magic.
Harry! Ron!
It was Angelina and she was hurrying toward them looking per
fectly desperate.
Its okay, said Harry quietly, when she was near enough to hear
him. Were still going to 
You realize shes including Quidditch in this? Angelina said over
him. We have to go and ask permission to reform the Gryffindor
team!
What? said Harry.
No way, said Ron, appalled.
You read the sign, it mentions teams too! So listen, Harry . . . I am
saying this for the last time. . . . Please, please dont lose your temper
with Umbridge again or she might not let us play anymore!
Okay, okay, said Harry, for Angelina looked as though she was on
the verge of tears. Dont worry, Ill behave myself. . . .
Bet Umbridge is in History of Magic, said Ron grimly, as they set
off for Binnss lesson. She hasnt inspected Binns yet. . . . Bet you
anything shes there. . . .
But he was wrong the only teacher present when they entered was
Professor Binns, floating an inch or so above his chair as usual and
preparing to continue his monotonous drone on giant wars. Harry


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
did not even attempt to follow what he was saying today he doodled
idly on his parchment ignoring Hermiones frequent glares and
nudges, until a particularly painful poke in the ribs made him look up
angrily.
What?
She pointed at the window. Harry looked around. Hedwig was
perched on the narrow window ledge, gazing through the thick glass
at him, a letter tied to her leg. Harry could not understand it they had
just had breakfast, why on earth hadnt she delivered the letter then, as
usual? Many of his classmates were pointing out Hedwig to each other
too.
Oh, Ive always loved that owl, shes so beautiful, Harry heard
Lavender sigh to Parvati.
He glanced around at Professor Binns who continued to read his
notes, serenely unaware that the classs attention was even less focused
upon him than usual. Harry slipped quietly off his chair, crouched
down, and hurried along the row to the window, where he slid the
catch and opened it very slowly.
He had expected Hedwig to hold out her leg so that he could re
move the letter and then fly off to the Owlery, but the moment the
window was open wide enough she hopped inside, hooting dolefully.
He closed the window with an anxious glance at Professor Binns,
crouched low again, and sped back to his seat with Hedwig on his
shoulder. He regained his seat, transferred Hedwig to his lap, and
made to remove the letter tied to her leg.
It was only then that he realized that Hedwigs feathers were oddly
ruffled some were bent the wrong way, and she was holding one of
her wings at an odd angle.
Shes hurt! Harry whispered, bending his head low over her.
Hermione and Ron leaned in closer Hermione even put down her
quill. Look  theres something wrong with her wing 
Hedwig was quivering when Harry made to touch the wing she


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
gave a little jump, all her feathers on end as though she was inflating
herself, and gazed at him reproachfully.
Professor Binns, said Harry loudly, and everyone in the class
turned to look at him. Im not feeling well.
Professor Binns raised his eyes from his notes, looking amazed, as
always, to find the room in front of him full of people.
Not feeling well? he repeated hazily.
Not at all well, said Harry firmly, getting to his feet while con
cealing Hedwig behind his back. So I think Ill need to go to the hos
pital wing.
Yes, said Professor Binns, clearly very much wrongfooted. Yes
. . . yes, hospital wing . . . well, off you go, then, Perkins . . .
Once outside the room Harry returned Hedwig to his shoulder and
hurried off up the corridor, pausing to think only when he was out of
sight of Binnss door. His first choice of somebody to cure Hedwig
would have been Hagrid, of course, but as he had no idea where
Hagrid was, his only remaining option was to find Professor Grubbly
Plank and hope she would help.
He peered out of a window at the blustery, overcast grounds. There
was no sign of her anywhere near Hagrids cabin if she was not teach
ing, she was probably in the staffroom. He set off downstairs, Hedwig
hooting feebly as she swayed on his shoulder.
Two stone gargoyles flanked the staffroom door. As Harry ap
proached, one of them croaked, You should be in class, sunny Jim.
This is urgent, said Harry curtly.
Ooooh, urgent, is it? said the other gargoyle in a highpitched
voice. Well, thats put us in our place, hasnt it?
Harry knocked he heard footsteps and then the door opened and
he found himself facetoface with Professor McGonagall.
You havent been given another detention! she said at once, her
square spectacles flashing alarmingly.
No, Professor! said Harry hastily.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Well then, why are you out of class?
Its urgent, apparently, said the second gargoyle snidely.
Im looking for Professor GrubblyPlank, Harry explained. Its
my owl, shes injured.
Injured owl, did you say?
Professor GrubblyPlank appeared at Professor McGonagalls
shoulder, smoking a pipe and holding a copy of the Daily Prophet.
Yes, said Harry, lifting Hedwig carefully off his shoulder, she
turned up after the other post owls and her wings all funny, look 
Professor GrubblyPlank stuck her pipe firmly between her teeth
and took Hedwig from Harry while Professor McGonagall watched.
Hmm, said Professor GrubblyPlank, her pipe waggling slightly
as she talked. Looks like somethings attacked her. Cant think what
would have done it, though. . . . Thestrals will sometimes go for
birds, of course, but Hagrids got the Hogwarts thestrals well trained
not to touch owls . . .
Harry neither knew nor cared what thestrals were, he just wanted
to know that Hedwig was going to be all right. Professor McGonagall,
however, looked sharply at Harry and said, Do you know how far
this owls traveled, Potter?
Er, said Harry. From London, I think.
He met her eyes briefly and knew that she understood London to
mean number twelve, Grimmauld Place by the way her eyebrows
had joined in the middle.
Professor GrubblyPlank pulled a monocle out of the inside of her
robes and screwed it into her eye to examine Hedwigs wing closely. I
should be able to sort this out if you leave her with me, Potter, she
said. She shouldnt be flying long distances for a few days, in any case.
Er  right  thanks, said Harry, just as the bell rang for break.
No problem, said Professor GrubblyPlank gruffly, turning back
into the staffroom.


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
Just a moment, Wilhelmina! said Professor McGonagall. Pot
ters letter!
Oh yeah! said Harry, who had momentarily forgotten the scroll
tied to Hedwigs leg. Professor GrubblyPlank handed it over and then
disappeared into the staffroom carrying Hedwig, who was staring at
Harry as though unable to believe he would give her away like this.
Feeling slightly guilty, he turned to go, but Professor McGonagall
called him back.
Potter!
Yes, Professor?
She glanced up and down the corridor there were students coming
from both directions.
Bear in mind, she said quickly and quietly, her eyes on the scroll
in his hand, that channels of communication in and out of Hogwarts
may be being watched, wont you?
I  said Harry, but the flood of students rolling along the corri
dor was almost upon him. Professor McGonagall gave him a curt nod
and retreated into the staffroom, leaving Harry to be swept out into
the courtyard with the crowd. Here he spotted Ron and Hermione al
ready standing in a sheltered corner, their cloak collars turned up
against the wind. Harry slit open the scroll as he hurried toward them
and found five words in Siriuss handwriting
Today, same time, same place.
Is Hedwig okay? asked Hermione anxiously, the moment he was
within earshot.
Where did you take her? asked Ron.
To GrubblyPlank, said Harry. And I met McGonagall. . . .
Listen. . . .
And he told them what Professor McGonagall had said. To his


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
surprise, neither of the others looked shocked on the contrary, they
exchanged significant looks.
What? said Harry, looking from Ron to Hermione and back
again.
Well, I was just saying to Ron . . . what if someone had tried to in
tercept Hedwig? I mean, shes never been hurt on a flight before, has
she?
Whos the letter from anyway? asked Ron, taking the note from
Harry.
Snuffles, said Harry quietly.
 Same time, same place? Does he mean the fire in the common
room?
Obviously, said Hermione, also reading the note. She looked un
easy. I just hope nobody else has read this. . . .
But it was still sealed and everything, said Harry, trying to con
vince himself as much as her. And nobody would understand what it
meant if they didnt know where wed spoken to him before, would
they?
I dont know, said Hermione anxiously, hitching her bag back
over her shoulder as the bell rang again. It wouldnt be exactly diffi
cult to reseal the scroll by magic. . . . And if anyones watching the
Floo Network . . . but I dont really see how we can warn him not to
come without that being intercepted too!
They trudged down the stone steps to the dungeons for Potions, all
three of them lost in thought, but as they reached the bottom of the
stairs they were recalled to themselves by the voice of Draco Malfoy,
who was standing just outside Snapes classroom door, waving around
an officiallooking piece of parchment and talking much louder than
was necessary so that they could hear every word.
Yeah, Umbridge gave the Slytherin Quidditch team permission to
continue playing straightaway, I went to ask her first thing this morn
ing. Well, it was pretty much automatic, I mean, she knows my father


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
really well, hes always popping in and out of the Ministry. . . . Itll be
interesting to see whether Gryffindor are allowed to keep playing,
wont it?
Dont rise, Hermione whispered imploringly to Harry and Ron,
who were both watching Malfoy, faces set and fists clenched. Its
what he wants. . . .
I mean, said Malfoy, raising his voice a little more, his gray eyes
glittering malevolently in Harry and Rons direction, if its a question
of influence with the Ministry, I dont think theyve got much chance.
. . . From what my father says, theyve been looking for an excuse to
sack Arthur Weasley for years. . . . And as for Potter . . . My father
says its a matter of time before the Ministry has him carted off to St.
Mungos. . . . apparently theyve got a special ward for people whose
brains have been addled by magic. . . .
Malfoy made a grotesque face, his mouth sagging open and his eyes
rolling. Crabbe and Goyle gave their usual grunts of laughter, Pansy
Parkinson shrieked with glee.
Something collided hard with Harrys shoulder, knocking him
sideways. A split second later he realized that Neville had just charged
past him, heading straight for Malfoy.
Neville, no!
Harry leapt forward and seized the back of Nevilles robes Neville
struggled frantically, his fists flailing, trying desperately to get at Mal
foy who looked, for a moment, extremely shocked.
Help me! Harry flung at Ron, managing to get an arm around
Nevilles neck and dragging him backward, away from the Slytherins.
Crabbe and Goyle were now flexing their arms, closing in front of
Malfoy, ready for the fight. Ron hurried forward and seized Nevilles
arms together, he and Harry succeeded in dragging Neville back into
the Gryffindor line. Nevilles face was scarlet the pressure Harry was
exerting on his throat rendered him quite incomprehensible, but odd
words spluttered from his mouth.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Not. . . funny . . . dont . . . Mungos . . . show . . . him . . .
The dungeon door opened. Snape appeared there. His black eyes
swept up the Gryffindor line to the point where Harry and Ron were
wrestling with Neville.
Fighting, Potter, Weasley, Longbottom? Snape said in his cold,
sneering voice. Ten points from Gryffindor. Release Longbottom,
Potter, or it will be detention. Inside, all of you.
Harry let go of Neville, who stood panting and glaring at him.
I had to stop you, Harry gasped, picking up his bag. Crabbe and
Goyle wouldve torn you apart.
Neville said nothing, he merely snatched up his own bag and
stalked off into the dungeon.
What in the name of Merlin, said Ron slowly, as they followed
Neville, was that about?
Harry did not answer. He knew exactly why the subject of people
who were in St. Mungos because of magical damage to their brains
was highly distressing to Neville, but he had sworn to Dumbledore
that he would not tell anyone Nevilles secret. Even Neville did not
know that Harry knew.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione took their usual seats at the back of the
class and pulled out parchment, quills, and their copies of One Thou
sand Magical Herbs and Fungi. The class around them was whispering
about what Neville had just done, but when Snape closed the dun
geon door with an echoing bang everybody fell silent immediately.
You will notice, said Snape in his low, sneering voice, that we
have a guest with us today.
He gestured toward the dim corner of the dungeon, and Harry saw
Professor Umbridge sitting there, clipboard on her knee. He glanced
sideways at Ron and Hermione, his eyebrows raised. Snape and Um
bridge, the two teachers he hated most . . . it was hard to decide
which he wanted to triumph over the other.


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
We are continuing with our Strengthening Solutions today, you
will find your mixtures as you left them last lesson, if correctly made
they should have matured well over the weekend  instructions 
he waved his wand again  on the board. Carry on.
Professor Umbridge spent the first half hour of the lesson making
notes in her corner. Harry was very interested in hearing her question
Snape, so interested, that he was becoming careless with his potion
again.
Salamander blood, Harry! Hermione moaned, grabbing his wrist
to prevent him adding the wrong ingredient for the third time. Not
pomegranate juice!
Right, said Harry vaguely, putting down the bottle and continu
ing to watch the corner. Umbridge had just gotten to her feet. Ha,
he said softly, as she strode between two lines of desks toward Snape,
who was bending over Dean Thomass cauldron.
Well, the class seems fairly advanced for their level, she said
briskly to Snapes back. Though I would question whether it is ad
visable to teach them a potion like the Strengthening Solution. I think
the Ministry would prefer it if that was removed from the syllabus.
Snape straightened up slowly and turned to look at her.
Now . . . how long have you been teaching at Hogwarts? she
asked, her quill poised over her clipboard.
Fourteen years, Snape replied. His expression was unfathomable.
His eyes on Snape, Harry added a few drops to his potion it hissed
menacingly and turned from turquoise to orange.
You applied first for the Defense Against the Dark Arts post, I
believe? Professor Umbridge asked Snape.
Yes, said Snape quietly.
But you were unsuccessful?
Snapes lip curled.
Obviously.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Professor Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard.
And you have applied regularly for the Defense Against the Dark
Arts post since you first joined the school, I believe?
Yes, said Snape quietly, barely moving his lips. He looked very
angry.
Do you have any idea why Dumbledore has consistently refused
to appoint you? asked Umbridge.
I suggest you ask him, said Snape jerkily.
Oh I shall, said Professor Umbridge with a sweet smile.
I suppose this is relevant? Snape asked, his black eyes narrowed.
Oh yes, said Professor Umbridge. Yes, the Ministry wants a
thorough understanding of teachers  er  backgrounds. . . .
She turned away, walked over to Pansy Parkinson and began ques
tioning her about the lessons. Snape looked around at Harry and their
eyes met for a second. Harry hastily dropped his gaze to his potion,
which was now congealing foully and giving off a strong smell of
burned rubber.
No marks again, then, Potter, said Snape maliciously, emptying
Harrys cauldron with a wave of his wand. You will write me an essay
on the correct composition of this potion, indicating how and why
you went wrong, to be handed in next lesson, do you understand?
Yes, said Harry furiously. Snape had already given them home
work, and he had Quidditch practice this evening this would mean
another couple of sleepless nights. It did not seem possible that he had
awoken that morning feeling very happy. All he felt now was a fervent
desire for this day to end as soon as possible.
Maybe Ill skive off Divination, he said glumly as they stood
again in the courtyard after lunch, the wind whipping at the hems of
robes and brims of hats. Ill pretend to be ill and do Snapes essay in
stead, then I wont have to stay up half the night. . . .
You cant skive off Divination, said Hermione severely.


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
Hark whos talking, you walked out of Divination, you hate
Trelawney! said Ron indignantly.
I dont hate her, said Hermione loftily. I just think shes an ab
solutely appalling teacher and a real old fraud. . . . But Harrys already
missed History of Magic and I dont think he ought to miss anything
else today!
There was too much truth in this to ignore, so half an hour later
Harry took his seat in the hot, overperfumed atmosphere of the Div
ination classroom feeling angry at everybody. Professor Trelawney was
handing out copies of The Dream Oracle yet again he would surely be
much better employed doing Snapes punishment essay than sitting
here trying to find meaning in a lot of madeup dreams.
It seemed, however, that he was not the only person in Divination
who was in a temper. Professor Trelawney slammed a copy of the Or
acle down on the table between Harry and Ron and swept away, her
lips pursed she threw the next copy of the Oracle at Seamus and
Dean, narrowly avoiding Seamuss head, and thrust the final one into
Nevilles chest with such force that he slipped off his pouf.
Well, carry on! said Professor Trelawney loudly, her voice high
pitched and somewhat hysterical. You know what to do! Or am I such
a substandard teacher that you have never learned how to open a book?
The class stared perplexedly at her and then at each other. Harry,
however, thought he knew what was the matter. As Professor
Trelawney flounced back to the highbacked teachers chair, her mag
nified eyes full of angry tears, he leaned his head closer to Rons and
muttered, I think shes got the results of her inspection back.
Professor? said Parvati Patil in a hushed voice she and Lavender
had always rather admired Professor Trelawney. Professor, is there
anything  er  wrong?
Wrong! cried Professor Trelawney in a voice throbbing with emo
tion. Certainly not! I have been insulted, certainly. . . . Insinuations


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
have been made against me. . . . Unfounded accusations levelled . . .
but no, there is nothing wrong, certainly not. . . .
She took a great shuddering breath and looked away from Parvati,
angry tears spilling from under her glasses.
I say nothing, she choked, of sixteen years devoted service. . . .
It has passed, apparently, unnoticed. . . . But I shall not be insulted,
no, I shall not!
But Professor, whos insulting you? asked Parvati timidly.
The establishment! said Professor Trelawney in a deep, dramatic,
wavering voice. Yes, those with eyes too clouded by the Mundane to
See as I See, to Know as I Know . . . Of course, we Seers have always
been feared, always persecuted. . . . It is  alas  our fate. . . .
She gulped, dabbed at her wet cheeks with the end of her shawl,
and then pulled a small, embroidered handkerchief from her sleeve,
into which she blew her nose very hard with a sound like Peeves blow
ing a raspberry. Ron sniggered. Lavender shot him a disgusted look.
Professor, said Parvati, do you mean . . . is it something Profes
sor Umbridge . . . ?
Do not speak to me about that woman! cried Professor
Trelawney, leaping to her feet, her beads rattling and her spectacles
flashing. Kindly continue with your work!
And she spent the rest of the lesson striding among them, tears still
leaking from behind her glasses, muttering what sounded like threats
under her breath.
. . . may well choose to leave . . . the indignity of it . . . on proba
tion . . . we shall see . . . how she dares . . .
You and Umbridge have got something in common, Harry told
Hermione quietly when they met again in Defense Against the Dark
Arts. She obviously reckons Trelawneys an old fraud too. . . . Looks
like shes put her on probation.
Umbridge entered the room as he spoke, wearing her black velvet
bow and an expression of great smugness.


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
Good afternoon, class.
Good afternoon, Professor Umbridge, they chanted drearily.
Wands away, please . . .
But there was no answering flurry of movement this time nobody
had bothered to take out their wands.
Please turn to page thirtyfour of Defensive Magical Theory and read
the third chapter, entitled The Case for NonOffensive Responses to
Magical Attack. There will be 
 no need to talk, Harry, Ron, and Hermione said together un
der their breaths.
No Quidditch practice, said Angelina in hollow tones when Harry,
Ron, and Hermione entered the common room that night after
dinner.
But I kept my temper! said Harry, horrified. I didnt say any
thing to her, Angelina, I swear, I 
I know, I know, said Angelina miserably. She just said she
needed a bit of time to consider.
Consider what? said Ron angrily. Shes given the Slytherins per
mission, why not us?
But Harry could imagine how much Umbridge was enjoying hold
ing the threat of no Gryffindor Quidditch team over their heads and
could easily understand why she would not want to relinquish that
weapon over them too soon.
Well, said Hermione, look on the bright side  at least now
youll have time to do Snapes essay!
Thats a bright side, is it? snapped Harry, while Ron stared in
credulously at Hermione. No Quidditch practice and extra Potions?
Harry slumped down into a chair, dragged his Potions essay reluc
tantly from his bag, and set to work.
It was very hard to concentrate even though he knew that Sirius
was not due in the fire until much later he could not help glancing


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
into the flames every few minutes just in case. There was also an in
credible amount of noise in the room Fred and George appeared fi
nally to have perfected one type of Skiving Snackbox, which they were
taking turns to demonstrate to a cheering and whooping crowd.
First, Fred would take a bite out of the orange end of a chew, at
which he would vomit spectacularly into a bucket they had placed in
front of them. Then he would force down the purple end of the chew,
at which the vomiting would immediately cease. Lee Jordan, who was
assisting the demonstration, was lazily vanishing the vomit at regular
intervals with the same Vanishing Spell Snape kept using on Harrys
potions.
What with the regular sounds of retching, cheering, and Fred and
George taking advance orders from the crowd, Harry was finding it
exceptionally difficult to focus on the correct method for Strengthen
ing Solutions. Hermione was not helping matters the cheers and
sound of vomit hitting the bottom of Fred and Georges bucket were
punctuated by loud and disapproving sniffs that Harry found, if any
thing, more distracting.
Just go and stop them, then! he said irritably, after crossing out
the wrong weight of powdered griffin claw for the fourth time.
I cant, theyre not technically doing anything wrong, said Her
mione through gritted teeth. Theyre quite within their rights to eat
the foul things themselves, and I cant find a rule that says the other
idiots arent entitled to buy them, not unless theyre proven to be dan
gerous in some way, and it doesnt look as though they are. . . .
She, Harry, and Ron watched George projectilevomit into the
bucket, gulp down the rest of the chew, and straighten up, beaming
with his arms wide to protracted applause.
You know, I dont get why Fred and George only got three O.W.L.s
each, said Harry, watching as Fred, George, and Lee collected gold
from the eager crowd. They really know their stuff. . . .


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
Oh, they only know flashy stuff thats no real use to anyone, said
Hermione disparagingly.
No real use? said Ron in a strained voice. Hermione, theyve got
about twentysix Galleons already. . . .
It was a long while before the crowd around the Weasleys dispersed,
and then Fred, Lee, and George sat up counting their takings even
longer, so that it was well past midnight when Harry, Ron, and
Hermione finally had the common room to themselves again. At long
last, Fred closed the doorway to the boys dormitories behind him,
rattling his box of Galleons ostentatiously so that Hermione scowled.
Harry, who was making very little progress with his Potions essay, de
cided to give it up for the night. As he put his books away, Ron, who
was dozing lightly in an armchair, gave a muffled grunt, awoke,
looked blearily into the fire and said, Sirius!
Harry whipped around Siriuss untidy dark head was sitting in the
fire again.
Hi, he said, grinning.
Hi, chorused Harry, Ron, and Hermione, all three kneeling
down upon the hearthrug. Crookshanks purred loudly and ap
proached the fire, trying, despite the heat, to put his face close to
Siriuss.
Howre things? said Sirius.
Not that good, said Harry, as Hermione pulled Crookshanks
back to stop him singeing his whiskers. The Ministrys forced
through another decree, which means were not allowed to have Quid
ditch teams 
 or secret Defense Against the Dark Arts groups? said Sirius.
There was a short pause.
How did you know about that? Harry demanded.
You want to choose your meeting places more carefully, said Sir
ius, grinning still more broadly. The Hogs Head, I ask you . . .


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Well, it was better than the Three Broomsticks! said Hermione
defensively. Thats always packed with people 
 which means youd have been harder to overhear, said Sirius.
Youve got a lot to learn, Hermione.
Who overheard us? Harry demanded.
Mundungus, of course, said Sirius, and when they all looked
puzzled he laughed. He was the witch under the veil.
That was Mundungus? Harry said, stunned. What was he doing
in the Hogs Head?
What do you think he was doing? said Sirius impatiently. Keep
ing an eye on you, of course.
Im still being followed? asked Harry angrily.
Yeah, you are, said Sirius, and just as well, isnt it, if the first
thing youre going to do on your weekend off is organize an illegal de
fense group.
But he looked neither angry nor worried on the contrary, he was
looking at Harry with distinct pride.
Why was Dung hiding from us? asked Ron, sounding disap
pointed. Wedve liked tove seen him.
He was banned from the Hogs Head twenty years ago, said Sirius,
and that barmans got a long memory. We lost Moodys spare Invisi
bility Cloak when Sturgis was arrested, so Dungs been dressing as a
witch a lot lately. . . . Anyway . . . First of all, Ron  Ive sworn to
pass on a message from your mother.
Oh yeah? said Ron, sounding apprehensive.
She says on no account whatsoever are you to take part in an ille
gal secret Defense Against the Dark Arts group. She says youll be ex
pelled for sure and your future will be ruined. She says there will be
plenty of time to learn how to defend yourself later and that you are
too young to be worrying about that right now. She also  Siriuss
eyes turned to the other two  advises Harry and Hermione not to
proceed with the group, though she accepts that she has no authority


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
over either of them and simply begs them to remember that she has
their best interests at heart. She would have written all this to you, but
if the owl had been intercepted youd all have been in real trouble, and
she cant say it for herself because shes on duty tonight.
On duty doing what? said Ron quickly.
Never you mind, just stuff for the Order, said Sirius. So its
fallen to me to be the messenger and make sure you tell her I passed it
all on, because I dont think she trusts me to.
There was another pause in which Crookshanks, mewing, at
tempted to paw Siriuss head, and Ron fiddled with a hole in the
hearthrug.
So you want me to say Im not going to take part in the defense
group? he muttered finally.
Me? Certainly not! said Sirius, looking surprised. I think its an
excellent idea!
You do? said Harry, his heart lifting.
Of course I do! said Sirius. Dyou think your father and I
wouldve lain down and taken orders from an old hag like Umbridge?
But  last term all you did was tell me to be careful and not take
risks 
Last year all the evidence was that someone inside Hogwarts was
trying to kill you, Harry! said Sirius impatiently. This year we know
that theres someone outside Hogwarts whod like to kill us all, so I
think learning to defend yourselves properly is a very good idea!
And if we do get expelled? Hermione asked, a quizzical look on
her face.
Hermione, this whole thing was your idea! said Harry, staring at
her.
I know it was. . . . I just wondered what Sirius thought, she said,
shrugging.
Well, better expelled and able to defend yourselves than sitting
safely in school without a clue, said Sirius.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Hear, hear, said Harry and Ron enthusiastically.
So, said Sirius, how are you organizing this group? Where are
you meeting?
Well, thats a bit of a problem now, said Harry. Dunno where
were going to be able to go. . . .
How about the Shrieking Shack? suggested Sirius.
Hey, thats an idea! said Ron excitedly, but Hermione made a
skeptical noise and all three of them looked at her, Siriuss head turn
ing in the flames.
Well, Sirius, its just that there were only four of you meeting in the
Shrieking Shack when you were at school, said Hermione, and all of
you could transform into animals and I suppose you could all have
squeezed under a single Invisibility Cloak if youd wanted to. But there
are twentyeight of us and none of us is an Animagus, so we wouldnt
need so much an Invisibility Cloak as an Invisibility Marquee 
Fair point, said Sirius, looking slightly crestfallen. Well, Im sure
youll come up with somewhere. . . . There used to be a pretty roomy
secret passageway behind that big mirror on the fourth floor, you
might have enough space to practice jinxes in there 
Fred and George told me its blocked, said Harry, shaking his
head. Caved in or something.
Oh . . . said Sirius, frowning. Well, Ill have a think and get
back to 
He broke off. His face was suddenly tense, alarmed. He turned
sideways, apparently looking into the solid brick wall of the fireplace.
Sirius? said Harry anxiously.
But he had vanished. Harry gaped at the flames for a moment, then
turned to look at Ron and Hermione.
Why did he  ?
Hermione gave a horrified gasp and leapt to her feet, still staring at
the fire.


EDUCATIONAL DECREE
NUMBER TWENTYFOUR
A hand had appeared amongst the flames, groping as though to
catch hold of something a stubby, shortfingered hand covered in
ugly oldfashioned rings. . . .
The three of them ran for it at the door of the boys dormitory
Harry looked back. Umbridges hand was still making snatching
movements amongst the flames, as though she knew exactly where
Siriuss hair had been moments before and was determined to seize it.


C H A P T E R E I G H T E E N
DUMBLEDORES ARMY
U
mbridge has been reading your mail, Harry. Theres no other
explanation.
You think Umbridge attacked Hedwig? he said, outraged.
Im almost certain of it, said Hermione grimly. Watch your frog,
its escaping.
Harry pointed his wand at the bullfrog that had been hopping
hopefully toward the other side of the table  Accio! and it
zoomed gloomily back into his hand.
Charms was always one of the best lessons in which to enjoy a pri
vate chat There was generally so much movement and activity that
the danger of being overheard was very slight. Today, with the room
full of croaking bullfrogs and cawing ravens, and with a heavy down
pour of rain clattering and pounding against the classroom windows,
Harry, Ron, and Hermiones whispered discussion about how Um
bridge had nearly caught Sirius went quite unnoticed.
Ive been suspecting this ever since Filch accused you of ordering
Dungbombs, because it seemed such a stupid lie, Hermione whis
pered. I mean, once your letter had been read, it would have been


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
quite clear you werent ordering them, so you wouldnt have been in
trouble at all  its a bit of a feeble joke, isnt it? But then I thought,
what if somebody just wanted an excuse to read your mail? Well then,
it would be a perfect way for Umbridge to manage it  tip off Filch,
let him do the dirty work and confiscate the letter, then either find a
way of stealing it from him or else demand to see it  I dont think
Filch would object, whens he ever stuck up for a students rights?
Harry, youre squashing your frog.
Harry looked down he was indeed squeezing his bullfrog so tightly
its eyes were popping he replaced it hastily upon the desk.
It was a very, very close call last night, said Hermione. I just
wonder if Umbridge knows how close it was. Silencio!
The bullfrog on which she was practicing her Silencing Charm was
struck dumb midcroak and glared at her reproachfully.
If shed caught Snuffles . . .
Harry finished the sentence for her.
Hed probably be back in Azkaban this morning. He waved his
wand without really concentrating his bullfrog swelled like a green
balloon and emitted a highpitched whistle.
Silencio! said Hermione hastily, pointing her wand at Harrys
frog, which deflated silently before them. Well, he mustnt do it
again, thats all. I just dont know how were going to let him know. We
cant send him an owl.
I dont reckon hell risk it again, said Ron. Hes not stupid, he
knows she nearly got him. Silencio!
The large and ugly raven in front of him let out a derisive caw.
Silencio! SILENCIO !
The raven cawed more loudly.
Its the way youre moving your wand, said Hermione, watching
Ron critically. You dont want to wave it, its more a sharp jab.
Ravens are harder than frogs, said Ron testily.
Fine, lets swap, said Hermione, seizing Rons raven and replacing


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
it with her own fat bullfrog. Silencio! The raven continued to open
and close its sharp beak, but no sound came out.
Very good, Miss Granger! said Professor Flitwicks squeaky little
voice and Harry, Ron, and Hermione all jumped. Now, let me see
you try, Mr. Weasley!
Wha  ? Oh  oh, right, said Ron, very flustered. Er  Silencio!
He jabbed at the bullfrog so hard that he poked it in the eye the
frog gave a deafening croak and leapt off the desk.
It came as no surprise to any of them that Harry and Ron were
given additional practice of the Silencing Charm for homework.
They were allowed to remain inside over break due to the down
pour outside. They found seats in a noisy and overcrowded classroom
on the first floor in which Peeves was floating dreamily up near the
chandelier, occasionally blowing an ink pellet at the top of somebodys
head. They had barely sat down when Angelina came struggling to
ward them through the groups of gossiping students.
Ive got permission! she said. To reform the Quidditch team!
Excellent! said Ron and Harry together.
Yeah, said Angelina, beaming. I went to McGonagall and I think
she might have appealed to Dumbledore  anyway, Umbridge had
to give in. Ha! So I want you down at the pitch at seven oclock
tonight, all right, because weve got to make up time, you realize were
only three weeks away from our first match?
She squeezed away from them, narrowly dodged an ink pellet from
Peeves, which hit a nearby first year instead, and vanished from sight.
Rons smile slipped slightly as he looked out of the window, which
was now opaque with hammering rain.
Hope this clears up . . . Whats up with you, Hermione?
She too was gazing at the window, but not as though she really saw
it. Her eyes were unfocused and there was a frown on her face.
Just thinking . . . she said, still frowning at the rainwashed
window.


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
About Siri . . . Snuffles? said Harry.
No . . . not exactly . . . said Hermione slowly. More . . . won
dering . . . I suppose were doing the right thing . . . I think . . . arent
we?
Harry and Ron looked at each other.
Well, that clears that up, said Ron. It wouldve been really an
noying if you hadnt explained yourself properly.
Hermione looked at him as though she had only just realized he
was there.
I was just wondering, she said, her voice stronger now, whether
were doing the right thing, starting this Defense Against the Dark
Arts group.
What! said Harry and Ron together.
Hermione, it was your idea in the first place! said Ron
indignantly.
I know, said Hermione, twisting her fingers together. But after
talking to Snuffles . . .
But hes all for it! said Harry.
Yes, said Hermione, staring at the window again. Yes, thats
what made me think maybe it wasnt a good idea after all. . . .
Peeves floated over them on his stomach, peashooter at the ready
automatically all three of them lifted their bags to cover their heads
until he had passed.
Lets get this straight, said Harry angrily, as they put their bags
back on the floor, Sirius agrees with us, so you dont think we should
do it anymore?
Hermione looked tense and rather miserable. Now staring at her
own hands she said, Do you honestly trust his judgment?
Yes, I do! said Harry at once. Hes always given us great advice!
An ink pellet whizzed past them, striking Katie Bell squarely in
the ear. Hermione watched Katie leap to her feet and start throw
ing things at Peeves it was a few moments before Hermione spoke


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
again and it sounded as though she was choosing her words very
carefully.
You dont think he has become . . . sort of . . . reckless . . . since
hes been cooped up in Grimmauld Place? You dont think hes . . .
kind of . . . living through us?
What dyou mean, living through us? Harry retorted.
I mean . . . well, I think hed love to be forming secret defense
societies right under the nose of someone from the Ministry. . . . I
think hes really frustrated at how little he can do where he is . . . so
I think hes keen to kind of . . . egg us on.
Ron looked utterly perplexed.
Sirius is right, he said, you do sound just like my mother.
Hermione bit her lip and did not answer. The bell rang just as
Peeves swooped down upon Katie and emptied an entire ink bottle
over her head.
The weather did not improve as the day wore on, so that at seven
oclock that evening, when Harry and Ron went down to the Quid
ditch pitch for practice, they were soaked through within minutes,
their feet slipping and sliding on the sodden grass. The sky was a deep,
thundery gray and it was a relief to gain the warmth and light of the
changing rooms, even if they knew the respite was only temporary.
They found Fred and George debating whether to use one of their
own Skiving Snackboxes to get out of flying.
 but I bet shed know what wed done, Fred said out of the cor
ner of his mouth. If only I hadnt offered to sell her some Puking
Pastilles yesterday 
We could try the Fever Fudge, George muttered, no ones seen
that yet 
Does it work? inquired Ron hopefully, as the hammering of rain
on the roof intensified and wind howled around the building.
Well, yeah, said Fred, your temperaturell go right up 


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
 but you get these massive pusfilled boils too, said George,
and we havent worked out how to get rid of them yet.
I cant see any boils, said Ron, staring at the twins.
No, well, you wouldnt, said Fred darkly, theyre not in a place
we generally display to the public 
 but they make sitting on a broom a right pain in the 
All right, everyone, listen up, said Angelina loudly, emerging
from the Captains office. I know its not ideal weather, but theres a
good chance well be playing Slytherin in conditions like this so its a
good idea to work out how were going to cope with them. Harry,
didnt you do something to your glasses to stop the rain fogging them
up when we played Hufflepuff in that storm?
Hermione did it, said Harry. He pulled out his wand, tapped his
glasses and said, Impervius!
I think we all ought to try that, said Angelina. If we could just
keep the rain off our faces it would really help visibility  all to
gether, come on  Impervius! Okay. Lets go.
They all stowed their wands back in the inside pockets of their
robes, shouldered their brooms, and followed Angelina out of the
changing rooms.
They squelched through the deepening mud to the middle of the
pitch visibility was still very poor even with the Impervius Charm
light was fading fast and curtains of rain were sweeping the grounds.
All right, on my whistle, shouted Angelina.
Harry kicked off from the ground, spraying mud in all directions,
and shot upward, the wind pulling him slightly off course. He had no
idea how he was going to see the Snitch in this weather he was hav
ing enough difficulty seeing the one Bludger with which they were
practicing a minute into the practice it almost unseated him and he
had to use the Sloth Grip Roll to avoid it. Unfortunately Angelina did
not see this in fact, she did not appear to be able to see anything
none of them had a clue what the others were doing. The wind was


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
picking up even at a distance Harry could hear the swishing, pound
ing sounds of the rain pummeling the surface of the lake.
Angelina kept them at it for nearly an hour before conceding de
feat. She led her sodden and disgruntled team back into the changing
rooms, insisting that the practice had not been a waste of time, though
without any real conviction in her voice. Fred and George were look
ing particularly annoyed both were bandylegged and winced with
every movement. Harry could hear them complaining in low voices as
he toweled his hair dry.
I think a few of mine have ruptured, said Fred in a hollow voice.
Mine havent, said George, wincing. Theyre throbbing like mad
. . . feel bigger if anything . . .
OUCH! said Harry.
He pressed the towel to his face, his eyes screwed tight with pain.
The scar on his forehead had seared again, more painfully than in
months.
Whats up? said several voices.
Harry emerged from behind his towel the changing room was
blurred because he was not wearing his glasses but he could still tell
that everyones face was turned toward him.
Nothing, he muttered, I  poked myself in the eye, thats
all. . . .
But he gave Ron a significant look and the two of them hung back
as the rest of the team filed back outside, muffled in their cloaks, their
hats pulled low over their ears.
What happened? said Ron, the moment that Alicia had disap
peared through the door. Was it your scar?
Harry nodded.
But . . . Looking scared, Ron strode across to the window and
stared out into the rain, He  he cant be near us now, can he?
No, Harry muttered, sinking onto a bench and rubbing his


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
forehead. Hes probably miles away. It hurt because . . . hes . . .
angry.
Harry had not meant to say that at all, and heard the words as
though a stranger had spoken them  yet he knew at once that they
were true. He did not know how he knew it, but he did Voldemort,
wherever he was, whatever he was doing, was in a towering temper.
Did you see him? said Ron, looking horrified. Did you . . . get a
vision, or something?
Harry sat quite still, staring at his feet, allowing his mind and his
memory to relax in the aftermath of the pain. . . .
A confused tangle of shapes, a howling rush of voices . . .
He wants something done, and its not happening fast enough,
he said.
Again, he felt surprised to hear the words coming out of his mouth,
and yet quite certain that they were true.
But . . . how do you know? said Ron.
Harry shook his head and covered his eyes with his hands, pressing
down upon them with his palms. Little stars erupted in them. He felt
Ron sit down on the bench beside him and knew Ron was staring at
him.
Is this what it was about last time? said Ron in a hushed voice.
When your scar hurt in Umbridges office? YouKnowWho was
angry?
Harry shook his head.
What is it, then?
Harry was thinking himself back. He had been looking into Um
bridges face. . . . His scar had hurt . . . and he had had that odd feel
ing in his stomach . . . a strange, leaping feeling . . . a happy feeling.
. . . But, of course, he had not recognized it for what it was, as he had
been feeling so miserable himself. . . .
Last time, it was because he was pleased, he said. Really pleased.


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
He thought . . . something good was going to happen. And the night
before we came back to Hogwarts . . . He thought back to the mo
ment when his scar had hurt so badly in his and Rons bedroom in
Grimmauld Place. He was furious. . . .
He looked around at Ron, who was gaping at him.
You could take over from Trelawney, mate, he said in an awed
voice.
Im not making prophecies, said Harry.
No, you know what youre doing? Ron said, sounding both scared
and impressed. Harry, youre reading YouKnowWhos mind. . . .
No, said Harry, shaking his head. Its more like . . . his mood, I
suppose. Im just getting flashes of what mood hes in. . . . Dumble
dore said something like this was happening last year. . . . He said that
when Voldemort was near me, or when he was feeling hatred, I could
tell. Well, now Im feeling it when hes pleased too. . . .
There was a pause. The wind and rain lashed at the building.
Youve got to tell someone, said Ron.
I told Sirius last time.
Well, tell him about this time!
Cant, can I? said Harry grimly. Umbridge is watching the owls
and the fires, remember?
Well then, Dumbledore 
Ive just told you, he already knows, said Harry shortly, getting to
his feet, taking his cloak off his peg, and swinging it around himself.
Theres no point telling him again.
Ron did up the fastening of his own cloak, watching Harry
thoughtfully.
Dumbledored want to know, he said.
Harry shrugged.
Cmon . . . weve still got Silencing Charms to practice . . .
They hurried back through the dark grounds, sliding and stum
bling up the muddy lawns, not talking. Harry was thinking hard.


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
What was it that Voldemort wanted done that was not happening
quickly enough?
Hes got other plans . . . plans he can put into operation very quietly
indeed . . . stuff he can only get by stealth . . . like a weapon. Something
he didnt have last time.
He had not thought about those words in weeks he had been too
absorbed in what was going on at Hogwarts, too busy dwelling on the
ongoing battles with Umbridge, the injustice of all the Ministry inter
ference. . . . But now they came back to him and made him wonder.
. . . Voldemorts anger would make sense if he was no nearer laying
hands on the weapon, whatever it was. . . . Had the Order thwarted
him, stopped him from seizing it? Where was it kept? Who had it now?
Mimbulus mimbletonia, said Rons voice and Harry came back to
his senses just in time to clamber through the portrait hole into the
common room.
It appeared that Hermione had gone to bed early, leaving Crook
shanks curled in a nearby chair and an assortment of knobbly, knitted
elf hats lying on a table by the fire. Harry was rather grateful that she
was not around because he did not much want to discuss his scar
hurting and have her urge him to go to Dumbledore too. Ron kept
throwing him anxious glances, but Harry pulled out his Potions book
and set to work to finish his essay, though he was only pretending to
concentrate and, by the time that Ron said he was going to bed too,
had written hardly anything.
Midnight came and went while Harry was reading and rereading a
passage about the uses of scurvygrass, lovage, and sneezewort and not
taking in a word of it. . . .
These plantes are moste efficacious in the inflaming of the braine, and
are therefore much used in Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts, where
the wizard is desirous of producing hotheadedness and recklessness. . . .
. . . Hermione said Sirius was becoming reckless cooped up in
Grimmauld Place. . . .


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
. . . moste efficacious in the inflaming of the braine, and are therefore
much used . . .
. . . the Daily Prophet would think his brain was inflamed if they
found out that he knew what Voldemort was feeling . . .
. . . therefore much used in Confusing and Befuddlement Draughts . . .
. . . confusing was the word, all right why did he know what Volde
mort was feeling? What was this weird connection between them,
which Dumbledore had never been able to explain satisfactorily?
. . . where the wizard is desirous . . .
. . . how he would like to sleep . . .
. . . of producing hotheadedness . . .
. . . It was warm and comfortable in his armchair before the fire,
with the rain still beating heavily on the windowpanes and Crook
shanks purring and the crackling of the flames. . . .
The book slipped from Harrys slack grip and landed with a dull
thud on the hearthrug. His head fell sideways. . . .
He was walking once more along a windowless corridor, his foot
steps echoing in the silence. As the door at the end of the passage
loomed larger his heart beat fast with excitement. . . . If he could only
open it . . . enter beyond . . .
He stretched out his hand. . . . His fingertips were inches from it. . . .
Harry Potter, sir!
He awoke with a start. The candles had all been extinguished in the
common room, but there was something moving close by.
Whozair? said Harry, sitting upright in his chair. The fire was al
most extinguished, the room very dark.
Dobby has your owl, sir! said a squeaky voice.
Dobby? said Harry thickly, peering through the gloom toward
the source of the voice.
Dobby the houseelf was standing beside the table on which
Hermione had left her half a dozen knitted hats. His large, pointed
ears were now sticking out from beneath what looked like all the hats


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
that Hermione had ever knitted he was wearing one on top of the
other, so that his head seemed elongated by two or three feet, and on
the very topmost bobble sat Hedwig, hooting serenely and obviously
cured.
Dobby volunteered to return Harry Potters owl! said the elf
squeakily, with a look of positive adoration on his face. Professor
GrubblyPlank says she is all well now, sir!
He sank into a deep bow so that his pencillike nose brushed the
threadbare surface of the hearthrug and Hedwig gave an indignant
hoot and fluttered onto the arm of Harrys chair.
Thanks, Dobby! said Harry, stroking Hedwigs head and blinking
hard, trying to rid himself of the image of the door in his dream. . . .
It had been very vivid. . . . Looking back at Dobby, he noticed that the
elf was also wearing several scarves and innumerable socks, so that his
feet looked far too big for his body.
Er . . . have you been taking all the clothes Hermiones been leav
ing out?
Oh no, sir, said Dobby happily, Dobby has been taking some for
Winky too, sir.
Yeah, how is Winky? asked Harry.
Dobbys ears drooped slightly.
Winky is still drinking lots, sir, he said sadly, his enormous round
green eyes, large as tennis balls, downcast. She still does not care for
clothes, Harry Potter. Nor do the other houseelves. None of them
will clean Gryffindor Tower anymore, not with the hats and socks hid
den everywhere, they finds them insulting, sir. Dobby does it all him
self, sir, but Dobby does not mind, sir, for he always hopes to meet
Harry Potter and tonight, sir, he has got his wish! Dobby sank into a
deep bow again. But Harry Potter does not seem happy, Dobby
went on, straightening up again and looking timidly at Harry.
Dobby heard him muttering in his sleep. Was Harry Potter having
bad dreams?


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
Not really bad, said Harry, yawning and rubbing his eyes. Ive
had worse.
The elf surveyed Harry out of his vast, orblike eyes. Then he said
very seriously, his ears drooping, Dobby wishes he could help Harry
Potter, for Harry Potter set Dobby free and Dobby is much, much
happier now. . . .
Harry smiled.
You cant help me, Dobby, but thanks for the offer. . . .
He bent and picked up his Potions book. Hed have to try and fin
ish the essay tomorrow. He closed the book and as he did so the fire
light illuminated the thin white scars on the back of his hand  the
result of his detention with Umbridge.
Wait a moment  there is something you can do for me, Dobby,
said Harry slowly.
The elf looked around, beaming.
Name it, Harry Potter, sir!
I need to find a place where twentyeight people can practice De
fense Against the Dark Arts without being discovered by any of the
teachers. Especially, Harry clenched his hand on the book, so that
the scars shone pearly white, Professor Umbridge.
He expected the elf s smile to vanish, his ears to droop he expected
him to say that this was impossible, or else that he would try, but his
hopes were not high. . . . What he had not expected was for Dobby to
give a little skip, his ears waggling happily, and clap his hands together.
Dobby knows the perfect place, sir! he said happily. Dobby
heard tell of it from the other houseelves when he came to Hogwarts,
sir. It is known by us as the Come and Go Room, sir, or else as the
Room of Requirement!
Why? said Harry curiously.
Because it is a room that a person can only enter, said Dobby se
riously, when they have real need of it. Sometimes it is there, and
sometimes it is not, but when it appears, it is always equipped for the


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
seekers needs. Dobby has used it, sir, said the elf, dropping his voice
and looking guilty, when Winky has been very drunk. He has hidden
her in the Room of Requirement and he has found antidotes to
butterbeer there, and a nice elfsized bed to settle her on while she
sleeps it off, sir. . . . And Dobby knows Mr. Filch has found extra
cleaning materials there when he has run short, sir, and 
 and if you really needed a bathroom, said Harry, suddenly re
membering something Dumbledore had said at the Yule Ball the pre
vious Christmas, would it fill itself with chamber pots?
Dobby expects so, sir, said Dobby, nodding earnestly. It is a
most amazing room, sir.
How many people know about it? said Harry, sitting up straighter
in his chair.
Very few, sir. Mostly people stumbles across it when they needs it,
sir, but often they never finds it again, for they do not know that it is
always there waiting to be called into service, sir.
It sounds brilliant, said Harry, his heart racing. It sounds per
fect, Dobby. When can you show me where it is?
Anytime, Harry Potter, sir, said Dobby, looking delighted at
Harrys enthusiasm. We could go now, if you like!
For a moment Harry was tempted to go now he was halfway out
of his seat, intending to hurry upstairs for his Invisibility Cloak when,
not for the first time, a voice very much like Hermiones whispered in
his ear reckless. It was, after all, very late, he was exhausted and had
Snapes essay to finish.
Not tonight, Dobby, said Harry reluctantly, sinking back into his
chair. This is really important. . . . I dont want to blow it, itll need
proper planning. . . . Listen, can you just tell me exactly where this
Room of Requirement is and how to get in there?
Their robes billowed and swirled around them as they splashed across
the flooded vegetable patch to double Herbology, where they could


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
hardly hear what Professor Sprout was saying over the hammering of
raindrops hard as hailstones on the greenhouse roof. The afternoons
Care of Magical Creatures lesson was to be relocated from the storm
swept grounds to a free classroom on the ground floor and, to their
intense relief, Angelina sought out her team at lunch to tell them that
Quidditch practice was canceled.
Good, said Harry quietly, when she told him, because weve
found somewhere to have our first Defense meeting. Tonight, eight
oclock, seventh floor opposite that tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy
being clubbed by those trolls. Can you tell Katie and Alicia?
She looked slightly taken aback but promised to tell the others
Harry returned hungrily to his sausages and mash. When he looked
up to take a drink of pumpkin juice, he found Hermione watching
him.
What? he said thickly.
Well . . . its just that Dobbys plans arent always that safe. Dont
you remember when he lost you all the bones in your arm?
This room isnt just some mad idea of Dobbys Dumbledore
knows about it too, he mentioned it to me at the Yule Ball.
Hermiones expression cleared.
Dumbledore told you about it?
Just in passing, said Harry, shrugging.
Oh well, thats all right then, said Hermione briskly and she
raised no more objections.
Together with Ron they had spent most of the day seeking out
those people who had signed their names to the list in the Hogs Head
and telling them where to meet that evening. Somewhat to Harrys
disappointment, it was Ginny who managed to find Cho Chang and
her friend first however, by the end of dinner he was confident that
the news had been passed to every one of the twentyfive people who
had turned up in the Hogs Head.
At halfpast seven Harry, Ron, and Hermione left the Gryffindor


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
common room, Harry clutching a certain piece of aged parchment in
his hand. Fifth years were allowed to be out in the corridors until nine
oclock, but all three of them kept looking around nervously as they
made their way up to the seventh floor.
Hold it, said Harry warningly, unfolding the piece of parchment
at the top of the last staircase, tapping it with his wand, and mutter
ing, I solemnly swear that I am up to no good.
A map of Hogwarts appeared upon the blank surface of the parch
ment. Tiny black moving dots, labeled with names, showed where
various people were.
Filch is on the second floor, said Harry, holding the map close to
his eyes and scanning it closely, and Mrs. Norris is on the fourth.
And Umbridge? said Hermione anxiously.
In her office, said Harry, pointing. Okay, lets go.
They hurried along the corridor to the place Dobby had described
to Harry, a stretch of blank wall opposite an enormous tapestry de
picting Barnabas the Barmys foolish attempt to train trolls for the
ballet.
Okay, said Harry quietly, while a motheaten troll paused in his
relentless clubbing of the wouldbe ballet teacher to watch. Dobby
said to walk past this bit of wall three times, concentrating hard on
what we need.
They did so, turning sharply at the window just beyond the blank
stretch of wall, then at the mansize vase on its other side. Ron had
screwed up his eyes in concentration, Hermione was whispering
something under her breath, Harrys fists were clenched as he stared
ahead of him.
We need somewhere to learn to fight. . . . he thought. Just give us a
place to practice . . . somewhere they cant find us . . .
Harry, said Hermione sharply, as they wheeled around after their
third walk past.
A highly polished door had appeared in the wall. Ron was staring


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
at it, looking slightly wary. Harry reached out, seized the brass handle,
pulled open the door, and led the way into a spacious room lit with
flickering torches like those that illuminated the dungeons eight floors
below.
The walls were lined with wooden bookcases, and instead of chairs
there were large silk cushions on the floor. A set of shelves at the far
end of the room carried a range of instruments such as Sneakoscopes,
Secrecy Sensors, and a large, cracked FoeGlass that Harry was sure
had hung, the previous year, in the fake Moodys office.
These will be good when were practicing Stunning, said Ron
enthusiastically, prodding one of the cushions with his foot.
And just look at these books! said Hermione excitedly, running a
finger along the spines of the large leatherbound tomes. A Com
pendium of Common Curses and Their CounterActions . . . The Dark
Arts Outsmarted . . . SelfDefensive Spellwork . . . wow . . . She looked
around at Harry, her face glowing, and he saw that the presence of
hundreds of books had finally convinced Hermione that what they
were doing was right. Harry, this is wonderful, theres everything we
need here!
And without further ado she slid Jinxes for the Jinxed from its shelf,
sank onto the nearest cushion, and began to read.
There was a gentle knock on the door. Harry looked around
Ginny, Neville, Lavender, Parvati, and Dean had arrived.
Whoa, said Dean, staring around, impressed. What is this
place?
Harry began to explain, but before he had finished more people
had arrived, and he had to start all over again. By the time eight
oclock arrived, every cushion was occupied. Harry moved across to
the door and turned the key protruding from the lock it clicked in a
satisfyingly loud way and everybody fell silent, looking at him.
Hermione carefully marked her page of Jinxes for the Jinxed and set the
book aside.


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
Well, said Harry, slightly nervously. This is the place weve
found for practices, and youve  er  obviously found it okay 
Its fantastic! said Cho, and several people murmured their
agreement.
Its bizarre, said Fred, frowning around at it. We once hid from
Filch in here, remember, George? But it was just a broom cupboard
then. . . .
Hey, Harry, whats this stuff? asked Dean from the rear of the
room, indicating the Sneakoscopes and the FoeGlass.
Dark Detectors, said Harry, stepping between the cushions to
reach them. Basically they all show when Dark wizards or enemies
are around, but you dont want to rely on them too much, they can be
fooled. . . .
He gazed for a moment into the cracked FoeGlass shadowy fig
ures were moving around inside it, though none was recognizable. He
turned his back on it.
Well, Ive been thinking about the sort of stuff we ought to do first
and  er  He noticed a raised hand. What, Hermione?
I think we ought to elect a leader, said Hermione.
Harrys leader, said Cho at once, looking at Hermione as though
she were mad, and Harrys stomach did yet another back flip.
Yes, but I think we ought to vote on it properly, said Hermione,
unperturbed. It makes it formal and it gives him authority. So 
everyone who thinks Harry ought to be our leader?
Everybody put up their hands, even Zacharias Smith, though he
did it very halfheartedly.
Er  right, thanks, said Harry, who could feel his face burning.
And  what, Hermione?
I also think we ought to have a name, she said brightly, her hand
still in the air. It would promote a feeling of team spirit and unity,
dont you think?
Can we be the AntiUmbridge League? said Angelina hopefully.


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
Or the Ministry of Magic Are Morons Group? suggested Fred.
I was thinking, said Hermione, frowning at Fred, more of a
name that didnt tell everyone what we were up to, so we can refer to
it safely outside meetings.
The Defense Association? said Cho. The D.A. for short, so no
body knows what were talking about?
Yeah, the D.A.s good, said Ginny. Only lets make it stand for
Dumbledores Army because thats the Ministrys worst fear, isnt it?
There was a good deal of appreciative murmuring and laughter at
this.
All in favor of the D.A.? said Hermione bossily, kneeling up on
her cushion to count. Thats a majority  motion passed!
She pinned the piece of paper with all of their names on it on the
wall and wrote DUMBLEDORES ARMY across the top in large
letters.
Right, said Harry, when she had sat down again, shall we get
practicing then? I was thinking, the first thing we should do is Expel
liarmus, you know, the Disarming Charm. I know its pretty basic but
Ive found it really useful 
Oh please, said Zacharias Smith, rolling his eyes and folding his
arms. I dont think Expelliarmus is exactly going to help us against
YouKnowWho, do you?
Ive used it against him, said Harry quietly. It saved my life last
June.
Smith opened his mouth stupidly. The rest of the room was very
quiet.
But if you think its beneath you, you can leave, Harry said.
Smith did not move. Nor did anybody else.
Okay, said Harry, his mouth slightly drier than usual with all
those eyes upon him, I reckon we should all divide into pairs and
practice.
It felt very odd to be issuing instructions, but not nearly as odd as


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
seeing them followed. Everybody got to their feet at once and divided
up. Predictably, Neville was left partnerless.
You can practice with me, Harry told him. Right  on the
count of three, then  one, two, three 
The room was suddenly full of shouts of Expelliarmus! Wands
flew in all directions, missed spells hit books on shelves and sent them
flying into the air. Harry was too quick for Neville, whose wand went
spinning out of his hand, hit the ceiling in a shower of sparks, and
landed with a clatter on top of a bookshelf, from which Harry re
trieved it with a Summoning Charm. Glancing around he thought he
had been right to suggest that they practice the basics first there was
a lot of shoddy spellwork going on many people were not succeeding
in disarming their opponents at all, but merely causing them to jump
backward a few paces or wince as the feeble spell whooshed over
them.
Expelliarmus! said Neville, and Harry, caught unawares, felt his
wand fly out of his hand.
I DID IT! said Neville gleefully. Ive never done it before  I
DID IT!
Good one! said Harry encouragingly, deciding not to point out
that in a real duel situation Nevilles opponent was unlikely to be star
ing in the opposite direction with his wand held loosely at his side.
Listen, Neville, can you take it in turns to practice with Ron and
Hermione for a couple of minutes so I can walk around and see how
the rest are doing?
Harry moved off into the middle of the room. Something very odd
was happening to Zacharias Smith every time he opened his mouth
to disarm Anthony Goldstein, his own wand would fly out of his
hand, yet Anthony did not seem to be making a sound. Harry did not
have to look far for the solution of the mystery, however Fred and
George were several feet from Smith and taking it in turns to point
their wands at his back.


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
Sorry, Harry, said George hastily, when Harry caught his eye.
Couldnt resist . . .
Harry walked around the other pairs, trying to correct those who
were doing the spell wrong. Ginny was teamed with Michael Corner
she was doing very well, whereas Michael was either very bad or un
willing to jinx her. Ernie Macmillan was flourishing his wand unnec
essarily, giving his partner time to get in under his guard the Creevey
brothers were enthusiastic but erratic and mainly responsible for all
the books leaping off the shelves around them. Luna Lovegood was
similarly patchy, occasionally sending Justin FinchFletchleys wand
spinning out of his hand, at other times merely causing his hair to
stand on end.
Okay, stop! Harry shouted. Stop! STOP !
I need a whistle, he thought, and immediately spotted one lying on
top of the nearest row of books. He caught it up and blew hard. Every
one lowered their wands.
That wasnt bad, said Harry, but theres definite room for im
provement. Zacharias Smith glared at him. Lets try again. . . .
He moved off around the room again, stopping here and there to
make suggestions. Slowly the general performance improved. He
avoided going near Cho and her friend for a while, but after walking
twice around every other pair in the room felt he could not ignore
them any longer.
Oh no, said Cho rather wildly as he approached. Expelliarmious!
I mean, Expellimellius! I  oh, sorry, Marietta!
Her curlyhaired friends sleeve had caught fire Marietta extin
guished it with her own wand and glared at Harry as though it was his
fault.
You made me nervous, I was doing all right before then! Cho told
Harry ruefully.
That was quite good, Harry lied, but when she raised her eye


DUMBLEDORES ARMY
brows he said, Well, no, it was lousy, but I know you can do it prop
erly, I was watching from over there. . . .
She laughed. Her friend Marietta looked at them rather sourly and
turned away.
Dont mind her, Cho muttered. She doesnt really want to be
here but I made her come with me. Her parents have forbidden her to
do anything that might upset Umbridge, you see  her mum works
for the Ministry.
What about your parents? asked Harry.
Well, theyve forbidden me to get on the wrong side of Umbridge
too, said Cho, drawing herself up proudly. But if they think Im not
going to fight YouKnowWho after what happened to Cedric 
She broke off, looking rather confused, and an awkward silence fell
between them Terry Boots wand went whizzing past Harrys ear and
hit Alicia Spinnet hard on the nose.
Well, my father is very supportive of any antiMinistry action!
said Luna Lovegood proudly from just behind Harry evidently she
had been eavesdropping on his conversation while Justin Finch
Fletchley attempted to disentangle himself from the robes that had
flown up over his head. Hes always saying hed believe anything of
Fudge, I mean, the number of goblins Fudge has had assassinated!
And of course he uses the Department of Mysteries to develop terrible
poisons, which he feeds secretly to anybody who disagrees with him.
And then theres his Umgubular Slashkilter 
Dont ask, Harry muttered to Cho as she opened her mouth,
looking puzzled. She giggled.
Hey, Harry, Hermione called from the other end of the room,
have you checked the time?
He looked down at his watch and received a shock  it was al
ready ten past nine, which meant they needed to get back to their
common rooms immediately or risk being caught and punished by


CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
Filch for being outofbounds. He blew his whistle everybody
stopped shouting, Expelliarmus! and the last couple of wands clat
tered to the floor.
Well, that was pretty good, said Harry, but weve overrun, wed
better leave it here. Same time, same place next week?
Sooner! said Dean Thomas eagerly and many people nodded in
agreement.
Angelina, however, said quickly, The Quidditch seasons about to
start, we need team practices too!
Lets say next Wednesday night, then, said Harry, and we can
decide on additional meetings then. . . . Come on, wed better get
going. . . .
He pulled out the Marauders Map again and checked it carefully
for signs of teachers on the seventh floor. He let them all leave in
threes and fours, watching their tiny dots anxiously to see that they re
turned safely to their dormitories the Hufflepuffs to the basement
corridor that also led to the kitchens, the Ravenclaws to a tower on the
west side of the castle, and the Gryffindors along the corridor to the
seventh floor and the Fat Ladys portrait.
That was really, really good, Harry, said Hermione, when finally
it was just her, Harry, and Ron left.
Yeah, it was! said Ron enthusiastically, as they slipped out of the
door and watched it melt back into stone behind them. Did you see
me disarm Hermione, Harry?
Only once, said Hermione, stung. I got you loads more than
you got me 
I did not only get you once, I got you at least three times 
Well, if youre counting the one where you tripped over your own
feet and knocked the wand out of my hand 
They argued all the way back to the common room, but Harry was
not listening to them. He had one eye on the Marauders Map, but he
was also thinking of how Cho had said he made her nervous. . . .


C H A P T E R N I N E T E E N
THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
H
arry felt as though he were carrying some kind of talisman
inside his chest over the following two weeks, a glowing se
cret that supported him through Umbridges classes and even made it
possible for him to smile blandly as he looked into her horrible
bulging eyes. He and the D.A. were resisting her under her very nose,
doing the very thing that she and the Ministry most feared, and when
ever he was supposed to be reading Wilbert Slinkhards book during
her lessons he dwelled instead on satisfying memories of their most re
cent meetings, remembering how Neville had successfully disarmed
Hermione, how Colin Creevey had mastered the Impediment Jinx af
ter three meetings hard effort, how Parvati Patil had produced such a
good Reductor Curse that she had reduced the table carrying all the
Sneakoscopes to dust.
He was finding it almost impossible to fix a regular night of the
week for D.A. meetings, as they had to accommodate three separate
Quidditch teams practices, which were often rearranged depending on
the weather conditions but Harry was not sorry about this, he had a
feeling that it was probably better to keep the timing of their meetings


CHAPTER NINETEEN
unpredictable. If anyone was watching them, it would be hard to make
out a pattern.
Hermione soon devised a very clever method of communicating
the time and date of the next meeting to all the members in case they
needed to change it at short notice, because it would look so suspi
cious if people from different Houses were seen crossing the Great
Hall to talk to each other too often. She gave each of the members of
the D.A. a fake Galleon Ron became very excited when he saw the
basket at first, convinced that she was actually giving out gold.
You see the numerals around the edge of the coins? Hermione
said, holding one up for examination at the end of their fourth meet
ing. The coin gleamed fat and yellow in the light from the torches.
On real Galleons thats just a serial number referring to the goblin
who cast the coin. On these fake coins, though, the numbers will
change to reflect the time and date of the next meeting. The coins will
grow hot when the date changes, so if youre carrying them in a pocket
youll be able to feel them. We take one each, and when Harry sets the
date of the next meeting hell change the numbers on his coin, and be
cause Ive put a Protean Charm on them, theyll all change to mimic
his.
A blank silence greeted Hermiones words. She looked around at all
the faces upturned to her, rather disconcerted.
Well  I thought it was a good idea, she said uncertainly, I
mean, even if Umbridge asked us to turn out our pockets, theres
nothing fishy about carrying a Galleon, is there? But . . . well, if you
dont want to use them . . .
You can do a Protean Charm? said Terry Boot.
Yes, said Hermione.
But thats . . . thats N.E.W.T. standard, that is, he said weakly.
Oh, said Hermione, trying to look modest. Oh . . . well . . . yes,
I suppose it is. . . .


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
How come youre not in Ravenclaw? he demanded, staring at
Hermione with something close to wonder. With brains like yours?
Well, the Sorting Hat did seriously consider putting me in Raven
claw during my Sorting, said Hermione brightly, but it decided on
Gryffindor in the end. So does that mean were using the Galleons?
There was a murmur of assent and everybody moved forward to
collect one from the basket. Harry looked sideways at Hermione.
You know what these remind me of?
No, whats that?
The Death Eaters scars. Voldemort touches one of them, and all
their scars burn, and they know theyve got to join him.
Well . . . yes, said Hermione quietly. That is where I got the idea
. . . but youll notice I decided to engrave the date on bits of metal
rather than on our members skin. . . .
Yeah . . . I prefer your way, said Harry, grinning, as he slipped his
Galleon into his pocket. I suppose the only danger with these is that
we might accidentally spend them.
Fat chance, said Ron, who was examining his own fake Galleon
with a slightly mournful air. I havent got any real Galleons to con
fuse it with.
As the first Quidditch match of the season, Gryffindor versus
Slytherin, drew nearer, their D.A. meetings were put on hold because
Angelina insisted on almost daily practices. The fact that the Quid
ditch Cup had not been held for so long added considerably to the in
terest and excitement surrounding the forthcoming game. The
Ravenclaws and Hufflepuffs were taking a lively interest in the out
come, for they, of course, would be playing both teams over the com
ing year and the Heads of House of the competing teams, though
they attempted to disguise it under a decent pretense of sportsman
ship, were determined to see their sides victory. Harry realized how
much Professor McGonagall cared about beating Slytherin when she


CHAPTER NINETEEN
abstained from giving them homework in the week leading up to the
match.
I think youve got enough to be getting on with at the moment,
she said loftily. Nobody could quite believe their ears until she looked
directly at Harry and Ron and said grimly, Ive become accustomed
to seeing the Quidditch Cup in my study, boys, and I really dont
want to have to hand it over to Professor Snape, so use the extra time to
practice, wont you?
Snape was no less obviously partisan He had booked the Quid
ditch pitch for Slytherin practice so often that the Gryffindors had
difficulty getting on it to play. He was also turning a deaf ear to the
many reports of Slytherin attempts to hex Gryffindor players in the
corridors. When Alicia Spinnet turned up in the hospital wing with
her eyebrows growing so thick and fast that they obscured her vision
and obstructed her mouth, Snape insisted that she must have at
tempted a HairThickening Charm on herself and refused to listen to
the fourteen eyewitnesses who insisted that they had seen the
Slytherin Keeper, Miles Bletchley, hit her from behind with a jinx
while she worked in the library.
Harry felt optimistic about Gryffindors chances they had, after all,
never lost to Malfoys team. Admittedly Ron was still not performing
to Woods standard, but he was working extremely hard to improve.
His greatest weakness was a tendency to lose confidence when he
made a blunder if he let in one goal he became flustered and was
therefore likely to miss more. On the other hand, Harry had seen Ron
make some truly spectacular saves when he was on form During one
memorable practice, he had hung onehanded from his broom and
kicked the Quaffle so hard away from the goal hoop that it soared the
length of the pitch and through the center hoop at the other end. The
rest of the team felt this save compared favorably with one made re
cently by Barry Ryan, the Irish International Keeper, against Polands
top Chaser, Ladislaw Zamojski. Even Fred had said that Ron might


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
yet make him and George proud, and that they were seriously consid
ering admitting that he was related to them, something he assured
Ron they had been trying to deny for four years.
The only thing really worrying Harry was how much Ron was al
lowing the tactics of the Slytherin team to upset him before they even
got onto the pitch. Harry, of course, had endured their snide com
ments for more than four years, so whispers of, Hey, Potty, I heard
Warringtons sworn to knock you off your broom on Saturday, far
from chilling his blood, made him laugh. Warringtons aims so pa
thetic Id be more worried if he was aiming for the person next to me,
he retorted, which made Ron and Hermione laugh and wiped the
smirk off Pansy Parkinsons face.
But Ron had never endured a relentless campaign of insults, jeers, and
intimidation. When Slytherins, some of them seventh years and consid
erably larger than he was, muttered as they passed in the corridors, Got
your bed booked in the hospital wing, Weasley? he did not laugh, but
turned a delicate shade of green. When Draco Malfoy imitated Ron
dropping the Quaffle which he did whenever they were within sight of
each other, Rons ears glowed red and his hands shook so badly that he
was likely to drop whatever he was holding at the time too.
October extinguished itself in a rush of howling winds and driving
rain and November arrived, cold as frozen iron, with hard frosts every
morning and icy drafts that bit at exposed hands and faces. The skies
and the ceiling of the Great Hall turned a pale, pearly gray, the moun
tains around Hogwarts became snowcapped, and the temperature in
the castle dropped so far that many students wore their thick protec
tive dragon skin gloves in the corridors between lessons.
The morning of the match dawned bright and cold. When Harry
awoke he looked around at Rons bed and saw him sitting bolt up
right, his arms around his knees, staring fixedly into space.
You all right? said Harry.
Ron nodded but did not speak. Harry was reminded forcibly of the


CHAPTER NINETEEN
time that Ron had accidentally put a slugvomiting charm on himself.
He looked just as pale and sweaty as he had done then, not to men
tion as reluctant to open his mouth.
You just need some breakfast, Harry said bracingly. Cmon.
The Great Hall was filling up fast when they arrived, the talk
louder and the mood more exuberant than usual. As they passed the
Slytherin table there was an upsurge of noise Harry looked around
and saw that nearly everyone there was wearing, in addition to the
usual greenandsilver scarves and hats, silver badges in the shape of
what seemed to be crowns. For some reason many of them waved at
Ron, laughing uproariously. Harry tried to see what was written on
the badges as he walked by, but he was too concerned to get Ron past
their table quickly to linger long enough to read them.
They received a rousing welcome at the Gryffindor table, where
everyone was wearing red and gold, but far from raising Rons spirits
the cheers seemed to sap the last of his morale he collapsed onto the
nearest bench looking as though he were facing his final meal.
I mustve been mental to do this, he said in a croaky whisper.
Mental.
Dont be thick, said Harry firmly, passing him a choice of cereals.
Youre going to be fine. Its normal to be nervous.
Im rubbish, croaked Ron. Im lousy. I cant play to save my life.
What was I thinking?
Get a grip, said Harry sternly. Look at that save you made with
your foot the other day, even Fred and George said it was brilliant 
Ron turned a tortured face to Harry.
That was an accident, he whispered miserably. I didnt mean to
do it  I slipped off my broom when none of you were looking and
I was trying to get back on and I kicked the Quaffle by accident.
Well, said Harry, recovering quickly from this unpleasant sur
prise, a few more accidents like that and the games in the bag, isnt it?


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
Hermione and Ginny sat down opposite them wearing redand
gold scarves, gloves, and rosettes.
Howre you feeling? Ginny asked Ron, who was now staring into
the dregs of milk at the bottom of his empty cereal bowl as though se
riously considering attempting to drown himself in them.
Hes just nervous, said Harry.
Well, thats a good sign, I never feel you perform as well in exams
if youre not a bit nervous, said Hermione heartily.
Hello, said a vague and dreamy voice from behind them. Harry
looked up Luna Lovegood had drifted over from the Ravenclaw table.
Many people were staring at her and a few openly laughing and point
ing she had managed to procure a hat shaped like a lifesize lions
head, which was perched precariously on her head.
Im supporting Gryffindor, said Luna, pointing unnecessarily at
her hat. Look what it does. . . .
She reached up and tapped the hat with her wand. It opened its
mouth wide and gave an extremely realistic roar that made everyone
in the vicinity jump.
Its good, isnt it? said Luna happily. I wanted to have it chewing
up a serpent to represent Slytherin, you know, but there wasnt time.
Anyway . . . good luck, Ronald!
She drifted away. They had not quite recovered from the shock of
Lunas hat before Angelina came hurrying toward them, accompanied
by Katie and Alicia, whose eyebrows had mercifully been returned to
normal by Madam Pomfrey.
When youre ready, she said, were going to go straight down to
the pitch, check out conditions and change.
Well be there in a bit, Harry assured her. Rons just got to have
some breakfast.
It became clear after ten minutes, however, that Ron was not capa
ble of eating anything more and Harry thought it best to get him


CHAPTER NINETEEN
down to the changing rooms. As they rose from the table, Hermione
got up too, and taking Harrys arm, she drew him to one side.
Dont let Ron see whats on those Slytherins badges, she whis
pered urgently.
Harry looked questioningly at her, but she shook her head warn
ingly Ron had just ambled over to them, looking lost and desperate.
Good luck, Ron, said Hermione, standing on tiptoe and kissing
him on the cheek. And you, Harry 
Ron seemed to come to himself slightly as they walked back across
the Great Hall. He touched the spot on his face where Hermione had
kissed him, looking puzzled, as though he was not quite sure what had
just happened. He seemed too distracted to notice much around him,
but Harry cast a curious glance at the crownshaped badges as they
passed the Slytherin table, and this time he made out the words etched
onto them
tbpibv
fplrohfkd
With an unpleasant feeling that this could mean nothing good, he
hurried Ron across the entrance hall, down the stone steps, and out
into the icy air.
The frosty grass crunched under their feet as they hurried down the
sloping lawns toward the stadium. There was no wind at all and the
sky was a uniform pearly white, which meant that visibility would be
good without the drawback of direct sunlight in the eyes. Harry
pointed out these encouraging factors to Ron as they walked, but he
was not sure that Ron was listening.
Angelina had changed already and was talking to the rest of the
team when they entered. Harry and Ron pulled on their robes Ron
attempted to do his up backtofront for several minutes before Alicia


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
took pity on him and went to help and then sat down to listen to the
prematch talk while the babble of voices outside grew steadily louder
as the crowd came pouring out of the castle toward the pitch.
Okay, Ive only just found out the final lineup for Slytherin, said
Angelina, consulting a piece of parchment. Last years Beaters, Der
rick and Bole, have left now, but it looks as though Montagues re
placed them with the usual gorillas, rather than anyone who can fly
particularly well. Theyre two blokes called Crabbe and Goyle, I dont
know much about them 
We do, said Harry and Ron together.
Well, they dont look bright enough to tell one end of a broom
from another, said Angelina, pocketing her parchment, but then I
was always surprised Derrick and Bole managed to find their way
onto the pitch without signposts.
Crabbe and Goyle are in the same mold, Harry assured her.
They could hear hundreds of footsteps mounting the banked
benches of the spectators stands now. Some people were singing,
though Harry could not make out the words. He was starting to feel
nervous, but he knew his butterflies were as nothing to Rons, who
was clutching his stomach and staring straight ahead again, his jaw set
and his complexion pale gray.
Its time, said Angelina in a hushed voice, looking at her watch.
Cmon everyone . . . good luck.
The team rose, shouldered their brooms, and marched in single file
out of the changing room and into the dazzling sunlight. A roar of
sound greeted them in which Harry could still hear singing, though it
was muffled by the cheers and whistles.
The Slytherin team were standing waiting for them. They too were
wearing those silver crownshaped badges. The new captain, Mon
tague, was built along the same lines as Dudley, with massive forearms
like hairy hams. Behind him lurked Crabbe and Goyle, almost as
large, blinking stupidly in the sunlight, swinging their new Beaters


CHAPTER NINETEEN
bats. Malfoy stood to one side, the sunlight gleaming on his white
blond head. He caught Harrys eye and smirked, tapping the crown
shaped badge on his chest.
Captains shake hands, ordered the umpire, Madam Hooch, as
Angelina and Montague reached each other. Harry could tell that
Montague was trying to crush Angelinas fingers, though she did not
wince. Mount your brooms. . . .
Madam Hooch placed her whistle in her mouth and blew.
The balls were released and the fourteen players shot upward out
of the corner of his eye Harry saw Ron streak off toward the goal
hoops. He zoomed higher, dodging a Bludger, and set off on a wide
lap of the pitch, gazing around for a glint of gold on the other side of
the stadium, Draco Malfoy was doing exactly the same.
And its Johnson, Johnson with the Quaffle, what a player that girl
is, Ive been saying it for years but she still wont go out with me 
JORDAN! yelled Professor McGonagall.
Just a fun fact, Professor, adds a bit of interest  and shes ducked
Warrington, shes passed Montague, shes  ouch  been hit from
behind by a Bludger from Crabbe. . . . Montague catches the Quaffle,
Montague heading back up the pitch and  nice Bludger there from
George Weasley, thats a Bludger to the head for Montague, he drops
the Quaffle, caught by Katie Bell, Katie Bell of Gryffindor reverse
passes to Alicia Spinnet and Spinnets away 
Lee Jordans commentary rang through the stadium and Harry lis
tened as hard as he could through the wind whistling in his ears and
the din of the crowd, all yelling and booing and singing 
 dodges Warrington, avoids a Bludger  close call, Alicia 
and the crowd are loving this, just listen to them, whats that theyre
singing?
And as Lee paused to listen the song rose loud and clear from the
sea of green and silver in the Slytherin section of the stands


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
Weasley cannot save a thing,
He cannot block a single ring,
Thats why Slytherins all sing
Weasley is our King.
Weasley was born in a bin,
He always lets the Quaffle in,
Weasley will make sure we win,
Weasley is our King.
 and Alicia passes back to Angelina! Lee shouted, and as Harry
swerved, his insides boiling at what he had just heard, he knew Lee
was trying to drown out the sound of the singing. Come on now,
Angelina  looks like shes got just the Keeper to beat!  SHE
SHOOTS  SHE  aaaah . . .
Bletchley, the Slytherin Keeper, had saved the goal he threw the
Quaffle to Warrington who sped off with it, zigzagging in between
Alicia and Katie the singing from below grew louder and louder as he
drew nearer and nearer Ron 
Weasley is our King,
Weasley is our King,
He always lets the Quaffle in,
Weasley is our King.
Harry could not help himself Abandoning his search for the Snitch,
he turned his Firebolt toward Ron, a lone figure at the far end of the
pitch, hovering before the three goal hoops while the massive War
rington pelted toward him . . .
 and its Warrington with the Quaffle, Warrington heading for
goal, hes out of Bludger range with just the Keeper ahead 
A great swell of song rose from the Slytherin stands below


CHAPTER NINETEEN
Weasley cannot save a thing,
He cannot block a single ring . . .
 so its the first test for new Gryffindor Keeper, Weasley, brother
of Beaters, Fred and George, and a promising new talent on the
team  come on, Ron!
But the scream of delight came from the Slytherin end Ron had
dived wildly, his arms wide, and the Quaffle had soared between
them, straight through Rons central hoop.
Slytherin score! came Lees voice amid the cheering and booing
from the crowds below. So thats tennil to Slytherin  bad luck,
Ron . . .
The Slytherins sang even louder
WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN,
HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN . . .
 and Gryffindor back in possession and its Katie Bell tanking
up the pitch  cried Lee valiantly, though the singing was now so
deafening that he could hardly make himself heard above it.
WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN,
WEASLEY IS OUR KING . . .
Harry, WHAT ARE YOU DOING? screamed Angelina, soaring
past him to keep up with Katie. GET GOING!
Harry realized that he had been stationary in midair for more than
a minute, watching the progress of the match without sparing a
thought for the whereabouts of the Snitch horrified, he went into a
dive and started circling the pitch again, staring around, trying to ig
nore the chorus now thundering through the stadium


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
WEASLEY IS OUR KING,
WEASLEY IS OUR KING . . .
There was no sign of the Snitch anywhere he looked Malfoy was
still circling the stadium just like Harry. They passed midway around
the pitch going in opposite directions and Harry heard Malfoy
singing loudly,
WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN . . .
 and its Warrington again, bellowed Lee, who passes to Pucey,
Puceys off past Spinnet, come on now Angelina, you can take him 
turns out you cant  but nice Bludger from Fred Weasley, I mean,
George Weasley, oh who cares, one of them anyway, and Warrington
drops the Quaffle and Katie Bell  er  drops it too  so thats
Montague with the Quaffle, Slytherin Captain Montague takes the
Quaffle, and hes off up the pitch, come on now Gryffindor, block him!
Harry zoomed around the end of the stadium behind the Slytherin
goal hoops, willing himself not to look at what was going on at Rons
end as he sped past the Slytherin Keeper, he heard Bletchley singing
along with the crowd below,
WEASLEY CANNOT SAVE A THING . . .
 and Puceys dodged Alicia again, and hes heading straight for
goal, stop it, Ron!
Harry did not have to look to see what had happened There was a
terrible groan from the Gryffindor end, coupled with fresh screams
and applause from the Slytherins. Looking down, Harry saw the pug
faced Pansy Parkinson right at the front of the stands, her back to the
pitch as she conducted the Slytherin supporters who were roaring


CHAPTER NINETEEN
THATS WHY SLYTHERINS ALL SING
WEASLEY IS OUR KING.
But twentynil was nothing, there was still time for Gryffindor to
catch up or catch the Snitch, a few goals and they would be in the lead
as usual, Harry assured himself, bobbing and weaving through the
other players in pursuit of something shiny that turned out to be
Montagues watch strap. . . .
But Ron let in two more goals. There was an edge of panic in
Harrys desire to find the Snitch now. If he could just get it soon and
finish the game quickly . . .
 and Katie Bell of Gryffindor dodges Pucey, ducks Montague,
nice swerve, Katie, and she throws to Johnson, Angelina Johnson
takes the Quaffle, shes past Warrington, shes heading for goal, come
on now Angelina  GRYFFINDOR SCORE! Its fortyten, forty
ten to Slytherin and Pucey has the Quaffle. . . .
Harry could hear Lunas ludicrous lion hat roaring amidst the
Gryffindor cheers and felt heartened only thirty points in it, that was
nothing, they could pull back easily. Harry ducked a Bludger that
Crabbe had sent rocketing in his direction and resumed his frantic
scouring of the pitch for the Snitch, keeping one eye on Malfoy in
case he showed signs of having spotted it, but Malfoy, like him, was
continuing to soar around the stadium, searching fruitlessly . . .
 Pucey throws to Warrington, Warrington to Montague, Mon
tague back to Pucey  Johnson intervenes, Johnson takes the Quaf
fle, Johnson to Bell, this looks good  I mean bad  Bells hit by a
Bludger from Goyle of Slytherin and its Pucey in possession
again . . .
WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN,
HE ALWAYS LETS THE QUAFFLE IN,
WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN 


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
But Harry had seen it at last The tiny fluttering Golden Snitch was
hovering feet from the ground at the Slytherin end of the pitch.
He dived. . . .
In a matter of seconds, Malfoy was streaking out of the sky on
Harrys left, a greenandsilver blur lying flat on his broom. . . .
The Snitch skirted the foot of one of the goal hoops and scooted off
toward the other side of the stands its change of direction suited Mal
foy, who was nearer. Harry pulled his Firebolt around, he and Malfoy
were now neck and neck . . .
Feet from the ground, Harry lifted his right hand from his broom,
stretching toward the Snitch . . . to his right, Malfoys arm extended
too, reaching, groping . . .
It was over in two breathless, desperate, windswept seconds 
Harrys fingers closed around the tiny, struggling ball  Malfoys fin
gernails scrabbled the back of Harrys hand hopelessly  Harry
pulled his broom upward, holding the struggling ball in his hand and
the Gryffindor spectators screamed their approval. . . .
They were saved, it did not matter that Ron had let in those goals,
nobody would remember as long as Gryffindor had won 
WHAM!
A Bludger hit Harry squarely in the small of the back and he flew
forward off his broom luckily he was only five or six feet above the
ground, having dived so low to catch the Snitch, but he was winded
all the same as he landed flat on his back on the frozen pitch. He heard
Madam Hoochs shrill whistle, an uproar in the stands compounded
of catcalls, angry yells and jeering, a thud, then Angelinas frantic
voice.
Are you all right?
 Course I am, said Harry grimly, taking her hand and allowing
her to pull him to his feet. Madam Hooch was zooming toward one
of the Slytherin players above him, though he could not see who it
was at this angle.


CHAPTER NINETEEN
It was that thug, Crabbe, said Angelina angrily. He whacked the
Bludger at you the moment he saw youd got the Snitch  but we
won, Harry, we won!
Harry heard a snort from behind him and turned around, still
holding the Snitch tightly in his hand Draco Malfoy had landed close
by whitefaced with fury, he was still managing to sneer.
Saved Weasleys neck, havent you? he said to Harry. Ive never
seen a worse Keeper . . . but then he was born in a bin. . . . Did you
like my lyrics, Potter?
Harry did not answer he turned away to meet the rest of the team
who were now landing one by one, yelling and punching the air in tri
umph, all except Ron, who had dismounted from his broom over by
the goalposts and was making his way slowly back to the changing
rooms alone.
We wanted to write another couple of verses! Malfoy called, as
Katie and Alicia hugged Harry. But we couldnt find rhymes for fat
and ugly  we wanted to sing about his mother, see 
Talk about sour grapes, said Angelina, casting Malfoy a disgusted
look.
 we couldnt fit in useless loser either  for his father, you
know 
Fred and George had realized what Malfoy was talking about.
Halfway through shaking Harrys hand they stiffened, looking around
at Malfoy.
Leave it, said Angelina at once, taking Fred by the arm. Leave it,
Fred, let him yell, hes just sore he lost, the jumpedup little 
 but you like the Weasleys, dont you, Potter? said Malfoy,
sneering. Spend holidays there and everything, dont you? Cant see
how you stand the stink, but I suppose when youve been dragged up
by Muggles even the Weasleys hovel smells okay 
Harry grabbed hold of George meanwhile it was taking the com
bined efforts of Angelina, Alicia, and Katie to stop Fred leaping on


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
Malfoy, who was laughing openly. Harry looked around for Madam
Hooch, but she was still berating Crabbe for his illegal Bludger attack.
Or perhaps, said Malfoy, leering as he backed away, you can re
member what your mothers house stank like, Potter, and Weasleys
pigsty reminds you of it 
Harry was not aware of releasing George, all he knew was that a
second later both of them were sprinting at Malfoy. He had com
pletely forgotten the fact that all the teachers were watching All he
wanted to do was cause Malfoy as much pain as possible. With no
time to draw out his wand, he merely drew back the fist clutching the
Snitch and sank it as hard as he could into Malfoys stomach 
Harry! HARRY! GEORGE! NO !
He could hear girls voices screaming, Malfoy yelling, George
swearing, a whistle blowing, and the bellowing of the crowd around
him, but he did not care, not until somebody in the vicinity yelled
IMPEDIMENTA! and only when he was knocked over backward by
the force of the spell did he abandon the attempt to punch every inch
of Malfoy he could reach. . . .
What do you think youre doing? screamed Madam Hooch, as
Harry leapt to his feet again it was she who had hit him with the Im
pediment Jinx. She was holding her whistle in one hand and a wand
in the other, her broom lay abandoned several feet away. Malfoy was
curled up on the ground, whimpering and moaning, his nose bloody
George was sporting a swollen lip Fred was still being forcibly re
strained by the three Chasers, and Crabbe was cackling in the back
ground. Ive never seen behavior like it  back up to the castle, both
of you, and straight to your Head of Houses office! Go! Now!
Harry and George marched off the pitch, both panting, neither say
ing a word to each other. The howling and jeering of the crowd grew
fainter and fainter until they reached the entrance hall, where they
could hear nothing except the sound of their own footsteps. Harry be
came aware that something was still struggling in his right hand, the


CHAPTER NINETEEN
knuckles of which he had bruised against Malfoys jaw looking down
he saw the Snitchs silver wings protruding from between his fingers,
struggling for release.
They had barely reached the door of Professor McGonagalls office
when she came marching along the corridor behind them. She was
wearing a Gryffindor scarf, but tore it from her throat with shaking
hands as she strode toward them, looking livid.
In! she said furiously, pointing to the door. Harry and George en
tered. She strode around behind her desk and faced them, quivering
with rage as she threw the Gryffindor scarf aside onto the floor.
Well ? she said. I have never seen such a disgraceful exhibition.
Two onto one! Explain yourselves!
Malfoy provoked us, said Harry stiffly.
Provoked you? shouted Professor McGonagall, slamming a fist
onto her desk so that her tartan biscuit tin slid sideways off it and
burst open, littering the floor with Ginger Newts. Hed just lost,
hadnt he, of course he wanted to provoke you! But what on earth he
can have said that justified what you two 
He insulted my parents, snarled George. And Harrys mother.
But instead of leaving it to Madam Hooch to sort out, you two de
cided to give an exhibition of Muggle dueling, did you? bellowed
Professor McGonagall. Have you any idea what youve  ?
Hem, hem.
George and Harry both spun around. Dolores Umbridge was
standing in the doorway wrapped in a green tweed cloak that greatly
enhanced her resemblance to a giant toad, and smiling in the horribly
sickly, ominous way that Harry had come to associate with imminent
misery.
May I help, Professor McGonagall? asked Professor Umbridge in
her most poisonously sweet voice.
Blood rushed into Professor McGonagalls face.


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
Help? she repeated in a constricted voice. What do you mean,
help?
Professor Umbridge moved forward into the office, still smiling her
sickly smile.
Why, I thought you might be grateful for a little extra authority.
Harry would not have been surprised to see sparks fly from Profes
sor McGonagalls nostrils.
You thought wrong, she said, turning her back on Umbridge.
Now, you two had better listen closely. I do not care what provoca
tion Malfoy offered you, I do not care if he insulted every family
member you possess, your behavior was disgusting and I am giving
each of you a weeks worth of detention! Do not look at me like that,
Potter, you deserve it! And if either of you ever 
Hem, hem.
Professor McGonagall closed her eyes as though praying for pa
tience as she turned her face toward Professor Umbridge again.
Yes?
I think they deserve rather more than detentions, said Umbridge,
smiling still more broadly.
Professor McGonagalls eyes flew open. But unfortunately, she
said, with an attempt at a reciprocal smile that made her look as
though she had lockjaw, it is what I think that counts, as they are in
my House, Dolores.
Well, actually, Minerva, simpered Umbridge, I think youll find
that what I think does count. Now, where is it? Cornelius just sent it.
. . . I mean, she gave a little false laugh as she rummaged in her hand
bag, the Minister just sent it. . . . Ah yes . . .
She had pulled out a piece of parchment that she now unfurled,
clearing her throat fussily before starting to read what it said.
Hem, hem . . . Educational Decree Number Twentyfive . . . 
Not another one! exclaimed Professor McGonagall violently.


CHAPTER NINETEEN
Well, yes, said Umbridge, still smiling. As a matter of fact, Min
erva, it was you who made me see that we needed a further amend
ment. . . . You remember how you overrode me, when I was unwilling
to allow the Gryffindor Quidditch team to reform? How you took
the case to Dumbledore, who insisted that the team be allowed to
play? Well, now, I couldnt have that. I contacted the Minister at once,
and he quite agreed with me that the High Inquisitor has to have the
power to strip pupils of privileges, or she  that is to say, I  would
have less authority than common teachers! And you see now, dont
you, Minerva, how right I was in attempting to stop the Gryffindor
team reforming? Dreadful tempers . . . Anyway, I was reading out our
amendment . . . hem, hem . . . The High Inquisitor will henceforth
have supreme authority over all punishments, sanctions, and removal
of privileges pertaining to the students of Hogwarts, and the power to
alter such punishments, sanctions, and removals of privileges as may
have been ordered by other staff members. Signed, Cornelius Fudge,
Minister of Magic, Order of Merlin First Class, etc., etc. . . . 
She rolled up the parchment and put it back into her handbag, still
smiling.
So . . . I really think I will have to ban these two from playing
Quidditch ever again, she said, looking from Harry to George and
back again.
Harry felt the Snitch fluttering madly in his hand.
Ban us? he said, and his voice sounded strangely distant. From
playing . . . ever again?
Yes, Mr. Potter, I think a lifelong ban ought to do the trick, said
Umbridge, her smile widening still further as she watched him strug
gle to comprehend what she had said. You and Mr. Weasley here.
And I think, to be safe, this young mans twin ought to be stopped
too  if his teammates had not restrained him, I feel sure he would
have attacked young Mr. Malfoy as well. I will want their broomsticks
confiscated, of course I shall keep them safely in my office, to make


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
sure there is no infringement of my ban. But I am not unreasonable,
Professor McGonagall, she continued, turning back to Professor
McGonagall who was now standing as still as though carved from ice,
staring at her. The rest of the team can continue playing, I saw no
signs of violence from any of them. Well . . . good afternoon to you.
And with a look of the utmost satisfaction Umbridge left the room,
leaving a horrified silence in her wake.
Banned, said Angelina in a hollow voice, late that evening in the
common room. Banned. No Seeker and no Beaters . . . What on
earth are we going to do?
It did not feel as though they had won the match at all. Everywhere
Harry looked there were disconsolate and angry faces the team them
selves were slumped around the fire, all apart from Ron, who had not
been seen since the end of the match.
Its just so unfair, said Alicia numbly. I mean, what about
Crabbe and that Bludger he hit after the whistle had been blown? Has
she banned him?
No, said Ginny miserably she and Hermione were sitting on ei
ther side of Harry. He just got lines, I heard Montague laughing
about it at dinner.
And banning Fred when he didnt even do anything! said Alicia
furiously, pummeling her knee with her fist.
Its not my fault I didnt, said Fred, with a very ugly look on his
face. I wouldve pounded the little scumbag to a pulp if you three
hadnt been holding me back.
Harry stared miserably at the dark window. Snow was falling. The
Snitch he had caught earlier was now zooming around and around the
common room people were watching its progress as though hyp
notized and Crookshanks was leaping from chair to chair, trying to
catch it.
Im going to bed, said Angelina, getting slowly to her feet.


CHAPTER NINETEEN
Maybe this will all turn out to have been a bad dream. . . . Maybe Ill
wake up tomorrow and find we havent played yet. . . .
She was soon followed by Alicia and Katie. Fred and George sloped
off to bed some time later, glowering at everyone they passed, and
Ginny went not long after that. Only Harry and Hermione were left
beside the fire.
Have you seen Ron? Hermione asked in a low voice.
Harry shook his head.
I think hes avoiding us, said Hermione. Where do you think
he  ?
But at that precise moment, there was a creaking sound behind
them as the Fat Lady swung forward and Ron came clambering
through the portrait hole. He was very pale indeed and there was
snow in his hair. When he saw Harry and Hermione he stopped dead
in his tracks.
Where have you been? said Hermione anxiously, springing up.
Walking, Ron mumbled. He was still wearing his Quidditch
things.
You look frozen, said Hermione. Come and sit down!
Ron walked to the fireside and sank into the chair farthest from
Harrys, not looking at him. The stolen Snitch zoomed over their
heads.
Im sorry, Ron mumbled, looking at his feet.
What for? said Harry.
For thinking I can play Quidditch, said Ron. Im going to resign
first thing tomorrow.
If you resign, said Harry testily, therell only be three players left
on the team. And when Ron looked puzzled, he said, Ive been
given a lifetime ban. Sove Fred and George.
What? Ron yelped.
Hermione told him the full story Harry could not bear to tell it
again. When she had finished, Ron looked more anguished than ever.


THE LION AND
THE SERPENT
This is all my fault 
You didnt make me punch Malfoy, said Harry angrily.
 if I wasnt so lousy at Quidditch 
 its got nothing to do with that 
 it was that song that wound me up 
 it wouldve wound anyone up 
Hermione got up and walked to the window, away from the argu
ment, watching the snow swirling down against the pane.
Look, drop it, will you! Harry burst out. Its bad enough with
out you blaming yourself for everything!
Ron said nothing but sat gazing miserably at the damp hem of his
robes. After a while he said in a dull voice, This is the worst Ive ever
felt in my life.
Join the club, said Harry bitterly.
Well, said Hermione, her voice trembling slightly. I can think of
one thing that might cheer you both up.
Oh yeah? said Harry skeptically.
Yeah, said Hermione, turning away from the pitchblack, snow
flecked window, a broad smile spreading across her face. Hagrids
back.


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y
HAGRIDS TALE
H
arry sprinted up to the boys dormitory to fetch the Invisi
bility Cloak and the Marauders Map from his trunk he was
so quick that he and Ron were ready to leave at least five minutes be
fore Hermione hurried back down from the girls dormitories, wear
ing scarf, gloves, and one of her own knobbly elf hats.
Well, its cold out there! she said defensively, as Ron clicked his
tongue impatiently.
They crept through the portrait hole and covered themselves
hastily in the cloak  Ron had grown so much he now needed to
crouch to prevent his feet showing  then, moving slowly and cau
tiously, they proceeded down the many staircases, pausing at intervals
to check the map for signs of Filch or Mrs. Norris. They were lucky
they saw nobody but Nearly Headless Nick, who was gliding along
absentmindedly humming something that sounded horribly like
Weasley Is Our King. They crept across the entrance hall and then
out into the silent, snowy grounds. With a great leap of his heart,
Harry saw little golden squares of light ahead and smoke coiling up
from Hagrids chimney. He set off at a quick march, the other two


HAGRIDS TALE
jostling and bumping along behind him, and they crunched excitedly
through the thickening snow until at last they reached the wooden
front door when Harry raised his fist and knocked three times, a dog
started barking frantically inside.
Hagrid, its us! Harry called through the keyhole.
Shoulda known! said a gruff voice.
They beamed at one another under the cloak they could tell that
Hagrids voice was pleased. Bin home three seconds . . . Out the way,
Fang . . . Out the way, yeh dozy dog . . .
The bolt was drawn back, the door creaked open, and Hagrids
head appeared in the gap.
Hermione screamed.
Merlins beard, keep it down! said Hagrid hastily, staring wildly
over their heads. Under that cloak, are yeh? Well, get in, get in!
Im sorry! Hermione gasped, as the three of them squeezed past
Hagrid into the house and pulled the cloak off themselves so he could
see them. I just  oh, Hagrid !
Its nuthin, its nuthin! said Hagrid hastily, shutting the door
behind them and hurrying to close all the curtains, but Hermione
continued to gaze up at him in horror.
Hagrids hair was matted with congealed blood, and his left eye had
been reduced to a puffy slit amid a mass of purpleandblack bruises.
There were many cuts on his face and hands, some of them still bleed
ing, and he was moving gingerly, which made Harry suspect broken
ribs. It was obvious that he had only just got home a thick black trav
eling cloak lay over the back of a chair and a haversack large enough
to carry several small children leaned against the wall inside the door.
Hagrid himself, twice the size of a normal man and three times as
broad, was now limping over to the fire and placing a copper kettle
over it.
What happened to you? Harry demanded, while Fang danced
around them all, trying to lick their faces.


CHAPTER TWENTY
Told yeh, nuthin, said Hagrid firmly. Want a cuppa?
Come off it, said Ron, youre in a right state!
Im tellin yeh, Im fine, said Hagrid, straightening up and turn
ing to beam at them all, but wincing. Blimey, its good ter see you
three again  had good summers, did yeh?
Hagrid, youve been attacked! said Ron.
Fer the las time, its nuthin! said Hagrid firmly.
Would you say it was nothing if one of us turned up with a pound
of mince instead of a face? Ron demanded.
You ought to go and see Madam Pomfrey, Hagrid, said Hermi
one anxiously. Some of those cuts look nasty.
Im dealin with it, all righ? said Hagrid repressively.
He walked across to the enormous wooden table that stood in the
middle of his cabin and twitched aside a tea towel that had been lying
on it. Underneath was a raw, bloody, greentinged steak slightly larger
than the average car tire.
Youre not going to eat that, are you, Hagrid? said Ron, leaning
in for a closer look. It looks poisonous.
Its sposed ter look like that, its dragon meat, Hagrid said. An I
didn get it ter eat.
He picked up the steak and slapped it over the left side of his face.
Greenish blood trickled down into his beard as he gave a soft moan of
satisfaction.
Thas better. It helps with the stingin, yeh know.
So are you going to tell us whats happened to you? Harry asked.
Can, Harry. Top secret. Moren me jobs worth ter tell yeh that.
Did the giants beat you up, Hagrid? asked Hermione quietly.
Hagrids fingers slipped on the dragon steak, and it slid squelchily
onto his chest.
Giants? said Hagrid, catching the steak before it reached his belt
and slapping it back over his face. Who said anythin abou giants?


HAGRIDS TALE
Who yeh bin talkin to? Whos told yeh what Ive  whos said Ive
bin  eh?
We guessed, said Hermione apologetically.
Oh, yeh did, did yeh? said Hagrid, fixing her sternly with the eye
that was not hidden by the steak.
It was kind of . . . obvious, said Ron. Harry nodded.
Hagrid glared at them, then snorted, threw the steak onto the table
again and strode back to the kettle, which was now whistling.
Never known kids like you three fer knowin moren yeh oughta,
he muttered, splashing boiling water into three of his bucketshaped
mugs. An Im not complimentin yeh, neither. Nosy, somed call it.
Interferin.
But his beard twitched.
So you have been to look for giants? said Harry, grinning as he sat
down at the table.
Hagrid set tea in front of each of them, sat down, picked up his
steak again, and slapped it back over his face.
Yeah, all righ, he grunted, I have.
And you found them? said Hermione in a hushed voice.
Well, theyre not that difficult ter find, ter be honest, said Hagrid.
Pretty big, see.
Where are they? said Ron.
Mountains, said Hagrid unhelpfully.
So why dont Muggles  ?
They do, said Hagrid darkly. Ony their deaths are always put
down ter mountaineerin accidents, aren they?
He adjusted the steak a little so that it covered the worst of the
bruising.
Come on, Hagrid, tell us what youve been up to! said Ron. Tell
us about being attacked by the giants and Harry can tell you about be
ing attacked by the dementors 


CHAPTER TWENTY
Hagrid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at the same time
a large quantity of spit, tea, and dragon blood was sprayed over the
table as Hagrid coughed and spluttered and the steak slid, with a soft
splat, onto the floor.
Whadda yeh mean, attacked by dementors? growled Hagrid.
Didnt you know? Hermione asked him, wideeyed.
I don know anything thats been happenin since I left. I was on a
secret mission, wasn I, didn wan owls followin me all over the
place  ruddy dementors! Yehre not serious?
Yeah, I am, they turned up in Little Whinging and attacked my
cousin and me, and then the Ministry of Magic expelled me 
WHAT?
 and I had to go to a hearing and everything, but tell us about
the giants first.
You were expelled ?
Tell us about your summer and Ill tell you about mine.
Hagrid glared at him through his one open eye. Harry looked right
back, an expression of innocent determination on his face.
Oh, all righ, Hagrid said in a resigned voice.
He bent down and tugged the dragon steak out of Fangs mouth.
Oh, Hagrid, dont, its not hygien  Hermione began, but Ha
grid had already slapped the meat back over his swollen eye. He took
another fortifying gulp of tea and then said, Well, we set off righ af
ter term ended 
Madame Maxime went with you, then? Hermione interjected.
Yeah, thas right, said Hagrid, and a softened expression appeared
on the few inches of face that were not obscured by beard or green
steak. Yeah, it was jus the pair of us. An Ill tell yeh this, shes not
afraid of roughin it, Olympe. Yeh know, shes a fine, welldressed
woman, an knowin where we was goin I wondered ow shed feel
abou clamberin over boulders an sleepin in caves an tha, bu she
never complained once.


HAGRIDS TALE
You knew where you were going? Harry asked. You knew where
the giants were?
Well, Dumbledore knew, an he told us, said Hagrid.
Are they hidden? asked Ron. Is it a secret, where they are?
Not really, said Hagrid, shaking his shaggy head. Its jus that
mos wizards aren bothered where they are, s long as its a good long
way away. But where they ares very difficult ter get ter, fer humans
anyway, so we needed Dumbledores instructions. Took us abou a
month ter get there 
A month? said Ron, as though he had never heard of a journey
lasting such a ridiculously long time. But  why couldnt you just
grab a Portkey or something?
There was an odd expression in Hagrids unobscured eye as he
squinted at Ron it was almost pitying.
Were bein watched, Ron, he said gruffly.
What dyou mean?
Yeh don understand, said Hagrid. The Ministrys keepin an eye
on Dumbledore an anyone they reckons in league with him, an 
We know about that, said Harry quickly, keen to hear the rest
of Hagrids story. We know about the Ministry watching Dumble
dore 
So you couldnt use magic to get there? asked Ron, looking thun
derstruck. You had to act like Muggles all the way?
Well, not exactly all the way, said Hagrid cagily. We jus had ter
be careful, cause Olympe an me, we stick out a bit 
Ron made a stifled noise somewhere between a snort and a sniff
and hastily took a gulp of tea.
 so were not hard ter follow. We was pretendin we was goin on
holiday together, so we got inter France an we made like we was
headin fer where Olympes school is, cause we knew we was bein
tailed by someone from the Ministry. We had to go slow, cause Im
not really sposed ter use magic an we knew the Ministryd be lookin


CHAPTER TWENTY
fer a reason ter run us in. But we managed ter give the berk tailin us
the slip round abou DeeJohn 
Ooooh, Dijon? said Hermione excitedly. Ive been there on hol
iday, did you see  ?
She fell silent at the look on Rons face.
We chanced a bit o magic after that, and it wasn a bad journey.
Ran inter a couple o mad trolls on the Polish border, an I had a sligh
disagreement with a vampire in a pub in Minsk, but apart from tha,
couldnta bin smoother.
An then we reached the place, an we started trekkin up through
the mountains, lookin fer signs of em . . .
We had ter lay off the magic once we got near em. Partly cause they
don like wizards an we didn want ter put their backs up too soon, and
partly cause Dumbledore had warned us YouKnowWho was bound
ter be after the giants an all. Said it was odds on hed sent a messenger
off ter them already. Told us ter be very careful of drawin attention ter
ourselves as we got nearer in case there was Death Eaters around.
Hagrid paused for a long draft of tea.
Go on! said Harry urgently.
Found em, said Hagrid baldly. Went over a ridge one nigh an
there they was, spread ou underneath us. Little fires burnin below an
huge shadows . . . It was like watchin bits o the mountain movin.
How big are they? asked Ron in a hushed voice.
 Bout twenty feet, said Hagrid casually. Some o the bigger ones
mighta bin twentyfive.
And how many were there? asked Harry.
I reckon abou seventy or eighty, said Hagrid.
Is that all? said Hermione.
Yep, said Hagrid sadly, eighty left, an there was loads once,
musta bin a hundred diff rent tribes from all over the world. But
theyve bin dyin out fer ages. Wizards killed a few, o course, but


HAGRIDS TALE
mostly they killed each other, an now theyre dyin out faster than
ever. Theyre not made ter live bunched up together like tha. Dumb
ledore says its our fault, it was the wizards who forced em to go an
made em live a good long way from us an they had no choice but ter
stick together fer their own protection.
So, said Harry, you saw them and then what?
Well, we waited till morning, didn want ter go sneakin up on em
in the dark, fer our own safety, said Hagrid.  Bout three in the
mornin they fell asleep jus where they was sittin. We didn dare sleep.
Fer one thing, we wanted ter make sure none of em woke up an
came up where we were, an fer another, the snorin was unbelievable.
Caused an avalanche near mornin.
Anyway, once it was light we wen down ter see em.
Just like that? said Ron, looking awestruck. You just walked
right into a giant camp?
Well, Dumbledored told us how ter do it, said Hagrid. Give the
Gurg gifts, show some respect, yeh know.
Give the what gifts? asked Harry.
Oh, the Gurg  means the chief.
How could you tell which one was the Gurg? asked Ron.
Hagrid grunted in amusement.
No problem, he said. He was the biggest, the ugliest, an the
laziest. Sittin there waitin ter be brought food by the others. Dead
goats an such like. Name o Karkus. Id put him at twentytwo,
twentythree feet, an the weight of a couple o bull elephants. Skin
like rhino hide an all.
And you just walked up to him? said Hermione breathlessly.
Well . . . down ter him, where he was lyin in the valley. They was
in this dip between four pretty high mountains, see, beside a moun
tain lake, an Karkus was lyin by the lake roarin at the others ter feed
him an his wife. Olympe an I went down the mountainside 


CHAPTER TWENTY
But didnt they try and kill you when they saw you? asked Ron
incredulously.
It was def nitely on some of their minds, said Hagrid, shrugging,
but we did what Dumbledore told us ter do, which was ter hold our
gift up high an keep our eyes on the Gurg an ignore the others. So
thas what we did. An the rest of em went quiet an watched us pass
an we got right up ter Karkuss feet an we bowed an put our present
down in front o him.
What do you give a giant? asked Ron eagerly. Food?
Nah, he can get food all righ fer himself, said Hagrid. We took
him magic. Giants like magic, jus dont like us usin it against em.
Anyway, that firs day we gave him a branch o Gubraithian fire.
Hermione said wow softly, but Harry and Ron both frowned in
puzzlement.
A branch of  ?
Everlasting fire, said Hermione irritably, you ought to know that
by now, Professor Flitwicks mentioned it at least twice in class!
Well anyway, said Hagrid quickly, intervening before Ron could
answer back, Dumbledored bewitched this branch to burn ever
more, which isn somethin any wizard could do, an so I lies it down
in the snow by Karkuss feet and says, A gift to the Gurg of the giants
from Albus Dumbledore, who sends his respectful greetings. 
And what did Karkus say? asked Harry eagerly.
Nothin, said Hagrid. Didn speak English.
Youre kidding!
Didn matter, said Hagrid imperturbably, Dumbledore had
warned us tha migh happen. Karkus knew enough to yell fer a cou
ple o giants who knew our lingo an they translated fer us.
And did he like the present? asked Ron.
Oh yeah, it went down a storm once they understood what it
was, said Hagrid, turning his dragon steak over to press the cooler


HAGRIDS TALE
side to his swollen eye. Very pleased. So then I said, Albus Dumble
dore asks the Gurg to speak with his messenger when he returns to
morrow with another gift. 
Why couldnt you speak to them that day? asked Hermione.
Dumbledore wanted us ter take it very slow, said Hagrid. Let
em see we kept our promises. Well come back tomorrow with another
present, an then we do come back with another present  gives a
good impression, see? An gives them time ter test out the firs present
an find out its a good one, an get em eager fer more. In any case, gi
ants like Karkus  overload em with information an theyll kill yeh
jus to simplify things. So we bowed outta the way an went off an
found ourselves a nice little cave ter spend that night in, an the fol
lowin mornin we went back an this time we found Karkus sittin up
waitin fer us lookin all eager.
And you talked to him?
Oh yeah. Firs we presented him with a nice battle helmet 
goblinmade an indestructible, yeh know  an then we sat down an
we talked.
What did he say?
Not much, said Hagrid. Listened mostly. But there were good
signs. Hed heard o Dumbledore, heard hed argued against the killin
of the last giants in Britain. Karkus seemed ter be quite intrested in
what Dumbledore had ter say. An a few o the others, specially the
ones who had some English, they gathered round an listened too. We
were hopeful when we left that day. Promised ter come back next day
with another present.
But that night it all wen wrong.
What dyou mean? said Ron quickly.
Well, like I say, theyre not meant ter live together, giants, said
Hagrid sadly. Not in big groups like that. They can help themselves,
they half kill each other every few weeks. The men fight each other an


CHAPTER TWENTY
the women fight each other, the remnants of the old tribes fight each
other, an thats even without squabbles over food an the best fires an
sleepin spots. Yehd think, seein as how their whole race is abou fin
ished, theyd lay off each other, but . . .
Hagrid sighed deeply
That night a fight broke out, we saw it from the mouth of our
cave, lookin down on the valley. Went on fer hours, yeh wouldn be
lieve the noise. An when the sun came up the snow was scarlet an his
head was lyin at the bottom o the lake.
Whose head? gasped Hermione.
Karkuss, said Hagrid heavily. There was a new Gurg, Golgo
math. He sighed deeply. Well, we hadn bargained on a new Gurg
two days after wed made friendly contact with the firs one, an we had
a funny feelin Golgomath wouldn be so keen ter listen to us, but we
had ter try.
You went to speak to him? asked Ron incredulously. After youd
watched him rip off another giants head?
 Course we did, said Hagrid, we hadn gone all that way ter give
up after two days! We wen down with the next present wed meant ter
give ter Karkus.
I knew it was no go before Id opened me mouth. He was sitting
there wearin Karkuss helmet, leerin at us as we got nearer. Hes mas
sive, one o the biggest ones there. Black hair an matchin teeth an a
necklace o bones. Humanlookin bones, some of em. Well, I gave it
a go  held out a great roll o dragon skin  an said A gift fer the
Gurg of the giants  Nex thing I knew, I was hangin upside down
in the air by me feet, two of his mates had grabbed me.
Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth.
How did you get out of that? asked Harry.
Wouldnta done if Olympe hadn bin there, said Hagrid. She
pulled out her wand an did some o the fastes spellwork Ive ever seen.


HAGRIDS TALE
Ruddy marvelous. Hit the two holdin me right in the eyes with Con
junctivitus Curses an they dropped me straightaway  bu we were
in trouble then, cause wed used magic against em, an thats what gi
ants hate abou wizards. We had ter leg it an we knew there was no
way we was going ter be able ter march inter camp again.
Blimey, Hagrid, said Ron quietly.
So how come its taken you so long to get home if you were only
there for three days? asked Hermione.
We didn leave after three days! said Hagrid, looking outraged.
Dumbledore was relyin on us!
But youve just said there was no way you could go back!
Not by daylight, we couldn, no. We just had ter rethink a bit.
Spent a couple o days lyin low up in the cave an watchin. An wha
we saw wasn good.
Did he rip off more heads? asked Hermione, sounding squeamish.
No, said Hagrid. I wish he had.
What dyou mean?
I mean we soon found out he didn object ter all wizards  just us.
Death Eaters? said Harry quickly.
Yep, said Hagrid darkly. Couple of em were visitin him evry
day, bringin gifts ter the Gurg, an he wasn dangling them upside
down.
How dyou know they were Death Eaters? said Ron.
Because I recognized one of em, Hagrid growled. Macnair, re
member him? Bloke they sent ter kill Buckbeak? Maniac, he is. Likes
killin as much as Golgomath, no wonder they were gettin on so well.
So Macnairs persuaded the giants to join YouKnowWho? said
Hermione desperately.
Hold yer hippogriffs, I haven finished me story yet! said Hagrid
indignantly, who, considering he had not wanted to tell them any
thing in the first place, now seemed to be rather enjoying himself. Me


CHAPTER TWENTY
an Olympe talked it over an we agreed, jus cause the Gurg looked
like favorin YouKnowWho didn mean all of em would. We had ter
try an persuade some o the others, the ones who hadn wanted Gol
gomath as Gurg.
How could you tell which ones they were? asked Ron.
Well, they were the ones bein beaten to a pulp, weren they? said
Hagrid patiently. The ones with any sense were keepin outta Golgo
maths way, hidin out in caves roun the gully jus like we were. So we
decided wed go pokin round the caves by night an see if we couldn
persuade a few o them.
You went poking around dark caves looking for giants? said Ron
with awed respect in his voice.
Well, it wasn the giants who worried us most, said Hagrid. We
were more concerned abou the Death Eaters. Dumbledore had told us
before we wen not ter tangle with em if we could avoid it, an the trou
ble was they knew we was around  spect Golgomath told him abou
us. At night when the giants were sleepin an we wanted ter be creepin
inter the caves, Macnair an the other one were sneakin round the
mountains lookin fer us. I was hard put to stop Olympe jumpin out
at them, said Hagrid, the corners of his mouth lifting his wild beard.
She was rarin ter attack em. . . . shes somethin when shes roused,
Olympe. . . . Fiery, yeh know . . . spect its the French in her . . .
Hagrid gazed mistyeyed into the fire. Harry allowed him thirty
seconds reminiscence before clearing his throat loudly.
So what happened? Did you ever get near any of the other giants?
What? Oh . . . oh yeah, we did. Yeah, on the third night after
Karkus was killed, we crept outta the cave wed bin hidin in and
headed back down inter the gully, keepin our eyes skinned fer the
Death Eaters. Got inside a few o the caves, no go  then, in abou
the sixth one, we found three giants hidin.
Cave mustve been cramped, said Ron.


HAGRIDS TALE
Wasn room ter swing a kneazle, said Hagrid.
Didnt they attack you when they saw you? asked Hermione.
Probably woulda done if theyd bin in any condition, said Ha
grid, but they was badly hurt, all three o them. Golgomaths lot had
beaten em unconscious theyd woken up an crawled inter the near
est shelter they could find. Anyway, one o them had a bit of English
an e translated fer the others, an what we had ter say didn seem ter
go down too badly. So we kep goin back, visitin the wounded. . . . I
reckon we had abou six or seven o them convinced at one poin.
Six or seven? said Ron eagerly. Well thats not bad  are they
going to come over here and start fighting YouKnowWho with us?
But Hermione said, What do you mean at one point, Hagrid?
Hagrid looked at her sadly.
Golgomaths lot raided the caves. The ones tha survived didn
wan no more ter to do with us after that.
So . . . so there arent any giants coming? said Ron, looking
disappointed.
Nope, said Hagrid, heaving a deep sigh as he turned over his
steak again and applied the cooler side to his face, but we did wha we
meant ter do, we gave em Dumbledores message an some o them
heard it an I spect some o themll remember it. Jus maybe, them that
don want ter stay around Golgomathll move outta the mountains,
an theres gotta be a chance theyll remember Dumbledores friendly
to em. . . . Could be theyll come . . .
Snow was filling up the window now. Harry became aware that the
knees of his robes were soaked through Fang was drooling with his
head in Harrys lap.
Hagrid? said Hermione quietly after a while.
Mmm?
Did you . . . was there any sign of . . . did you hear anything about
your . . . your . . . mother while you were there?


CHAPTER TWENTY
Hagrids unobscured eye rested upon her, and Hermione looked
rather scared.
Im sorry . . . I . . . forget it 
Dead, Hagrid grunted. Died years ago. They told me.
Oh . . . Im . . . Im really sorry, said Hermione in a very small
voice.
Hagrid shrugged his massive shoulders. No need, he said shortly.
Can remember her much. Wasn a great mother.
They were silent again. Hermione glanced nervously at Harry and
Ron, plainly wanting them to speak.
But you still havent explained how you got in this state, Hagrid,
Ron said, gesturing toward Hagrids bloodstained face.
Or why youre back so late, said Harry. Sirius says Madame
Maxime got back ages ago 
Who attacked you? said Ron.
I haven bin attacked! said Hagrid emphatically. I 
But the rest of his words were drowned in a sudden outbreak of
rapping on the door. Hermione gasped her mug slipped through her
fingers and smashed on the floor Fang yelped. All four of them stared
at the window beside the doorway. The shadow of somebody small
and squat rippled across the thin curtain.
Its her! Ron whispered.
Get under here! Harry said quickly seizing the Invisibility Cloak
he whirled it over himself and Hermione while Ron tore around the
table and dived beneath the cloak as well. Huddled together they
backed away into a corner. Fang was barking madly at the door. Ha
grid looked thoroughly confused.
Hagrid, hide our mugs!
Hagrid seized Harrys and Rons mugs and shoved them under
the cushion in Fangs basket. Fang was now leaping up at the door
Hagrid pushed him out of the way with his foot and pulled it open.
Professor Umbridge was standing in the doorway wearing her


HAGRIDS TALE
green tweed cloak and a matching hat with earflaps. Lips pursed, she
leaned back so as to see Hagrids face she barely reached his navel.
So, she said slowly and loudly, as though speaking to somebody
deaf. Youre Hagrid, are you?
Without waiting for an answer she strolled into the room, her
bulging eyes rolling in every direction.
Get away, she snapped, waving her handbag at Fang, who had
bounded up to her and was attempting to lick her face.
Er  I don want ter be rude, said Hagrid, staring at her, but
who the ruddy hell are you?
My name is Dolores Umbridge.
Her eyes were sweeping the cabin. Twice they stared directly into
the corner where Harry stood, sandwiched between Ron and Her
mione.
Dolores Umbridge? Hagrid said, sounding thoroughly confused.
I thought you were one o them Ministry  don you work with
Fudge?
I was Senior Undersecretary to the Minister, yes, said Umbridge,
now pacing around the cabin, taking in every tiny detail within, from
the haversack against the wall to the abandoned traveling cloak. I am
now the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher 
Thas brave of yeh, said Hagrid, theres not manyd take tha job
anymore 
 and Hogwarts High Inquisitor, said Umbridge, giving no sign
that she had heard him.
Whas that? said Hagrid, frowning.
Precisely what I was going to ask, said Umbridge, pointing at the
broken shards of china on the floor that had been Hermiones mug.
Oh, said Hagrid, with a most unhelpful glance toward the corner
where Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood hidden, oh, tha was . . . was
Fang. He broke a mug. So I had ter use this one instead.
Hagrid pointed to the mug from which he had been drinking, one


CHAPTER TWENTY
hand still clamped over the dragon steak pressed to his eye. Umbridge
stood facing him now, taking in every detail of his appearance instead
of the cabins.
I heard voices, she said quietly.
I was talkin ter Fang, said Hagrid stoutly.
And was he talking back to you?
Well . . . in a manner o speakin, said Hagrid, looking uncom
fortable. I sometimes say Fangs near enough human 
There are three sets of footprints in the snow leading from the cas
tle doors to your cabin, said Umbridge sleekly.
Hermione gasped Harry clapped a hand over her mouth. Luckily,
Fang was sniffing loudly around the hem of Professor Umbridges
robes, and she did not appear to have heard.
Well, I ony jus got back, said Hagrid, waving an enormous hand
at the haversack. Maybe someone came ter call earlier an I missed
em.
There are no footsteps leading away from your cabin door.
Well I . . . I don know why thatd be. . . . said Hagrid, tugging
nervously at his beard and again glancing toward the corner where
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood, as though asking for help.
Erm . . .
Umbridge wheeled around and strode the length of the cabin,
looking around carefully. She bent and peered under the bed. She
opened Hagrids cupboards. She passed within two inches of where
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stood pressed against the wall Harry ac
tually pulled in his stomach as she walked by. After looking carefully
inside the enormous cauldron Hagrid used for cooking she wheeled
around again and said, What has happened to you? How did you
sustain those injuries?
Hagrid hastily removed the dragon steak from his face, which in
Harrys opinion was a mistake, because the blackandpurple bruising


HAGRIDS TALE
all around his eye was now clearly visible, not to mention the large
amount of fresh and congealed blood on his face. Oh, I . . . had a bit
of an accident, he said lamely.
What sort of accident?
II tripped.
You tripped, she repeated coolly.
Yeah, thas right. Over . . . over a friends broomstick. I don fly,
meself. Well, look at the size o me, I don reckon theres a broomstick
thatd hold me. Friend o mine breeds Abraxan horses, I dunno if
youve ever seen em, big beasts, winged, yeh know, Ive had a bit of a
ride on one o them an it was 
Where have you been? asked Umbridge, cutting coolly through
Hagrids babbling.
Whereve I . . . ?
Been, yes, she said. Term started more than two months ago.
Another teacher has had to cover your classes. None of your colleagues
has been able to give me any information as to your whereabouts. You
left no address. Where have you been?
There was a pause in which Hagrid stared at her with his newly un
covered eye. Harry could almost hear his brain working furiously.
I  Ive been away for me health, he said.
For your health, said Umbridge. Her eyes traveled over Hagrids
discolored and swollen face dragon blood dripped gently onto his
waistcoat in the silence. I see.
Yeah, said Hagrid, bit o  o fresh air, yeh know 
Yes, as gamekeeper fresh air must be so difficult to come by, said
Umbridge sweetly. The small patch of Hagrids face that was not black
or purple flushed.
Well  change o scene, yeh know 
Mountain scenery? said Umbridge swiftly.
She knows, Harry thought desperately.


CHAPTER TWENTY
Mountains? Hagrid repeated, clearly thinking fast. Nope, South
of France fer me. Bit o sun an . . . an sea.
Really? said Umbridge. You dont have much of a tan.
Yeah . . . well . . . sensitive skin, said Hagrid, attempting an in
gratiating smile. Harry noticed that two of his teeth had been knocked
out. Umbridge looked at him coldly his smile faltered. Then she
hoisted her handbag a little higher into the crook of her arm and said,
I shall, of course, be informing the Minister of your late return.
Righ, said Hagrid, nodding.
You ought to know too that as High Inquisitor it is my unfortu
nate but necessary duty to inspect my fellow teachers. So I daresay we
shall meet again soon enough.
She turned sharply and marched back to the door.
Youre inspectin us? Hagrid echoed blankly, looking after her.
Oh yes, said Umbridge softly, looking back at him with her hand
on the door handle. The Ministry is determined to weed out unsat
isfactory teachers, Hagrid. Good night.
She left, closing the door behind her with a snap. Harry made to
pull off the Invisibility Cloak but Hermione seized his wrist.
Not yet, she breathed in his ear. She might not be gone yet.
Hagrid seemed to be thinking the same way he stumped across the
room and pulled back the curtain an inch or so.
Shes goin back ter the castle, he said in a low voice. Blimey . . .
inspectin people, is she?
Yeah, said Harry, pulling the cloak off. Trelawneys on probation
already. . . .
Um . . . what sort of thing are you planning to do with us in class,
Hagrid? asked Hermione.
Oh, don you worry abou that, Ive got a great load o lessons
planned, said Hagrid enthusiastically, scooping up his dragon steak
from the table and slapping it over his eye again. Ive bin keepin a


HAGRIDS TALE
couple o creatures saved fer yer O.W.L. year, you wait, theyre some
thin really special.
Erm . . . special in what way? asked Hermione tentatively.
Im not sayin, said Hagrid happily. I don want ter spoil the
surprise.
Look, Hagrid, said Hermione urgently, dropping all pretense,
Professor Umbridge wont be at all happy if you bring anything to
class thats too dangerous 
Dangerous? said Hagrid, looking genially bemused. Don be
silly, I wouldn give yeh anythin dangerous! I mean, all righ, they can
look after themselves 
Hagrid, youve got to pass Umbridges inspection, and to do that
it would really be better if she saw you teaching us how to look after
porlocks, how to tell the difference between knarls and hedgehogs,
stuff like that! said Hermione earnestly.
But thas not very interestin, Hermione, said Hagrid. The stuff
Ive gots much more impressive, Ive bin bringin em on fer years, I
reckon Ive got the ony domestic herd in Britain 
Hagrid . . . please . . . said Hermione, a note of real desperation
in her voice. Umbridge is looking for any excuse to get rid of teach
ers she thinks are too close to Dumbledore. Please, Hagrid, teach us
something dull thats bound to come up in our O.W.L. . . .
But Hagrid merely yawned widely and cast a oneeyed look of
longing toward the vast bed in the corner.
Lisen, its bin a long day an its late, he said, patting Hermione
gently on the shoulder, so that her knees gave way and hit the floor
with a thud. Oh  sorry  He pulled her back up by the neck of
her robes. Look, don you go worryin abou me, I promise yeh Ive
got really good stuff planned fer yer lessons now Im back. . . . Now
you lot had better get back up to the castle, an don forget ter wipe
yer footprints out behind yeh!


CHAPTER TWENTY
I dunno if you got through to him, said Ron a short while later
when, having checked that the coast was clear, they walked back up to
the castle through the thickening snow, leaving no trace behind them
due to the Obliteration Charm Hermione was performing as they
went.
Then Ill go back again tomorrow, said Hermione determinedly.
Ill plan his lessons for him if I have to. I dont care if she throws out
Trelawney but shes not taking Hagrid!


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y  O N E
THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
H
ermione plowed her way back to Hagrids cabin through two
feet of snow on Sunday morning. Harry and Ron wanted to
go with her, but their mountain of homework had reached an alarm
ing height again, so they grudgingly remained in the common room,
trying to ignore the gleeful shouts drifting up from the grounds out
side, where students were enjoying themselves skating on the frozen
lake, tobogganing, and worst of all, bewitching snowballs to zoom up
to Gryffindor Tower and rap hard on the windows.
Oy! bellowed Ron, finally losing patience and sticking his head
out of the window, I am a prefect and if one more snowball hits this
window  OUCH!
He withdrew his head sharply, his face covered in snow.
Its Fred and George, he said bitterly, slamming the window be
hind him. Gits . . .
Hermione returned from Hagrids just before lunch, shivering
slightly, her robes damp to the knees.
So? said Ron, looking up when she entered. Got all his lessons
planned for him?


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
Well, I tried, she said dully, sinking into a chair beside Harry. She
pulled out her wand and gave it a complicated little wave so that hot
air streamed out of the tip she then pointed this at her robes, which
began to steam as they dried out. He wasnt even there when I ar
rived, I was knocking for at least half an hour. And then he came
stumping out of the forest 
Harry groaned. The Forbidden Forest was teeming with the kind of
creatures most likely to get Hagrid the sack. Whats he keeping in
there? Did he say? asked Harry.
No, said Hermione miserably. He says he wants them to be a
surprise. I tried to explain about Umbridge, but he just doesnt get it.
He kept saying nobody in their right mind would rather study knarls
than chimaeras  oh I dont think hes got a chimaera, she added at
the appalled look on Harry and Rons faces, but thats not for lack of
trying from what he said about how hard it is to get eggs. . . . I dont
know how many times I told him hed be better off following
GrubblyPlanks plan, I honestly dont think he listened to half of
what I said. Hes in a bit of a funny mood, you know. He still wont
say how he got all those injuries. . . .
Hagrids reappearance at the staff table at breakfast next day was
not greeted by enthusiasm from all students. Some, like Fred, George,
and Lee, roared with delight and sprinted up the aisle between the
Gryffindor and Hufflepuff tables to wring Hagrids enormous hand
others, like Parvati and Lavender, exchanged gloomy looks and shook
their heads. Harry knew that many of them preferred Professor
GrubblyPlanks lessons, and the worst of it was that a very small, un
biased part of him knew that they had good reason GrubblyPlanks
idea of an interesting class was not one where there was a risk that
somebody might have their head ripped off.
It was with a certain amount of apprehension that Harry, Ron, and
Hermione headed down to Hagrids on Tuesday, heavily muffled
against the cold. Harry was worried, not only about what Hagrid


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
might have decided to teach them, but also about how the rest of the
class, particularly Malfoy and his cronies, would behave if Umbridge
was watching them.
However, the High Inquisitor was nowhere to be seen as they strug
gled through the snow toward Hagrid, who stood waiting for them on
the edge of the forest. He did not present a reassuring sight the
bruises that had been purple on Saturday night were now tinged with
green and yellow and some of his cuts still seemed to be bleeding.
Harry could not understand this Had Hagrid perhaps been attacked
by some creature whose venom prevented the wounds it inflicted from
healing? As though to complete the ominous picture, Hagrid was
carrying what looked like half a dead cow over his shoulder.
Were workin in here today! Hagrid called happily to the ap
proaching students, jerking his head back at the dark trees behind
him. Bit more sheltered! Anyway, they prefer the dark. . . .
What prefers the dark? Harry heard Malfoy say sharply to
Crabbe and Goyle, a trace of panic in his voice. What did he say
prefers the dark  did you hear?
Harry remembered the only occasion on which Malfoy had entered
the forest before now he had not been very brave then either. He
smiled to himself after the Quidditch match anything that caused
Malfoy discomfort was all right with him.
Ready? said Hagrid happily, looking around at the class. Right,
well, Ive bin savin a trip inter the forest fer yer fifth year. Thought
wed go an see these creatures in their natural habitat. Now, what
were studyin today is pretty rare, I reckon Im probably the ony per
son in Britain whos managed ter train em 
And youre sure theyre trained, are you? said Malfoy, the panic in
his voice even more pronounced now. Only it wouldnt be the first
time youd brought wild stuff to class, would it?
The Slytherins murmured agreement and a few Gryffindors looked
as though they thought Malfoy had a fair point too.


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
 Course theyre trained, said Hagrid, scowling and hoisting the
dead cow a little higher on his shoulder.
So what happened to your face, then? demanded Malfoy.
Mind yer own business! said Hagrid, angrily. Now if yehve fin
ished askin stupid questions, follow me!
He turned and strode straight into the forest. Nobody seemed
much disposed to follow. Harry glanced at Ron and Hermione, who
sighed but nodded, and the three of them set off after Hagrid, leading
the rest of the class.
They walked for about ten minutes until they reached a place
where the trees stood so closely together that it was as dark as twilight
and there was no snow on the ground at all. Hagrid deposited his half
a cow with a grunt on the ground, stepped back, and turned to face
his class again, most of whom were creeping toward him from tree to
tree, peering around nervously as though expecting to be set upon at
any moment.
Gather roun, gather roun, said Hagrid encouragingly. Now,
theyll be attracted by the smell o the meat but Im goin ter give em
a call anyway, cause theyll like ter know its me. . . .
He turned, shook his shaggy head to get the hair out of his face,
and gave an odd, shrieking cry that echoed through the dark trees like
the call of some monstrous bird. Nobody laughed most of them
looked too scared to make a sound.
Hagrid gave the shrieking cry again. A minute passed in which the
class continued to peer nervously over their shoulders and around
trees for a first glimpse of whatever it was that was coming. And then,
as Hagrid shook his hair back for a third time and expanded his enor
mous chest, Harry nudged Ron and pointed into the black space be
tween two gnarled yew trees.
A pair of blank, white, shining eyes were growing larger through
the gloom and a moment later the dragonish face, neck, and then
skeletal body of a great, black, winged horse emerged from the dark


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
ness. It looked around at the class for a few seconds, swishing its long
black tail, then bowed its head and began to tear flesh from the dead
cow with its pointed fangs.
A great wave of relief broke over Harry. Here at last was proof that
he had not imagined these creatures, that they were real Hagrid knew
about them too. He looked eagerly at Ron, but Ron was still staring
around into the trees and after a few seconds he whispered, Why
doesnt Hagrid call again?
Most of the rest of the class were wearing expressions as confused
and nervously expectant as Rons and were still gazing everywhere but
at the horse standing feet from them. There were only two other peo
ple who seemed to be able to see them a stringy Slytherin boy standing
just behind Goyle was watching the horse eating with an expression of
great distaste on his face, and Neville, whose eyes were following the
swishing progress of the long black tail.
Oh, an here comes another one! said Hagrid proudly, as a second
black horse appeared out of the dark trees, folded its leathery wings
closer to its body, and dipped its head to gorge on the meat. Now . . .
put yer hands up, who can see em?
Immensely pleased to feel that he was at last going to understand the
mystery of these horses, Harry raised his hand. Hagrid nodded at him.
Yeah . . . yeah, I knew youd be able ter, Harry, he said seriously.
An you too, Neville, eh? An 
Excuse me, said Malfoy in a sneering voice, but what exactly are
we supposed to be seeing?
For answer, Hagrid pointed at the cow carcass on the ground. The
whole class stared at it for a few seconds, then several people gasped
and Parvati squealed. Harry understood why Bits of flesh stripping
themselves away from the bones and vanishing into thin air had to
look very odd indeed.
Whats doing it? Parvati demanded in a terrified voice, retreating
behind the nearest tree. Whats eating it?


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
Thestrals, said Hagrid proudly and Hermione gave a soft oh! of
comprehension at Harrys shoulder. Hogwarts has got a whole herd
of em in here. Now, who knows  ?
But theyre really, really unlucky! interrupted Parvati, looking
alarmed. Theyre supposed to bring all sorts of horrible misfortune
on people who see them. Professor Trelawney told me once 
No, no, no, said Hagrid, chuckling, thas jus superstition, that
is, they aren unlucky, theyre dead clever an useful! Course, this lot
don get a lot o work, its mainly jus pullin the school carriages un
less Dumbledores takin a long journey an don want ter Apparate 
an heres another couple, look 
Two more horses came quietly out of the trees, one of them passing
very close to Parvati, who shivered and pressed herself closer to the
tree, saying, I think I felt something, I think its near me!
Don worry, it won hurt yeh, said Hagrid patiently. Righ, now,
who can tell me why some o you can see them an some cant?
Hermione raised her hand.
Go on then, said Hagrid, beaming at her.
The only people who can see thestrals, she said, are people who
have seen death.
Thas exactly right, said Hagrid solemnly, ten points ter Gryffin
dor. Now, thestrals 
Hem, hem.
Professor Umbridge had arrived. She was standing a few feet away
from Harry, wearing her green hat and cloak again, her clipboard at
the ready. Hagrid, who had never heard Umbridges fake cough be
fore, was gazing in some concern at the closest thestral, evidently un
der the impression that it had made the sound.
Hem, hem.
Oh hello! Hagrid said, smiling, having located the source of the
noise.
You received the note I sent to your cabin this morning? said


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
Umbridge, in the same loud, slow voice she had used with him earlier,
as though she was addressing somebody both foreign and very slow.
Telling you that I would be inspecting your lesson?
Oh yeah, said Hagrid brightly. Glad yeh found the place all
righ! Well, as you can see  or, I dunno  can you? Were doin
thestrals today 
Im sorry? said Umbridge loudly, cupping her hand around her
ear and frowning. What did you say?
Hagrid looked a little confused.
Er  thestrals! he said loudly. Big  er  winged horses, yeh
know!
He flapped his gigantic arms hopefully. Professor Umbridge raised
her eyebrows at him and muttered as she made a note on her clipboard,
 has . . . to . . . resort . . . to . . . crude . . . sign . . . language . . . 
Well . . . anyway . . . said Hagrid, turning back to the class and
looking slightly flustered. Erm . . . what was I sayin?
  Appears . . . to . . . have . . . poor . . . short . . . term . . . memory . . . 
muttered Umbridge, loudly enough for everyone to hear her. Draco
Malfoy looked as though Christmas had come a month early Hermi
one, on the other hand, had turned scarlet with suppressed rage.
Oh yeah, said Hagrid, throwing an uneasy glance at Umbridges
clipboard, but plowing on valiantly. Yeah, I was gonna tell yeh how
come we got a herd. Yeah, so, we started off with a male an five fe
males. This one, he patted the first horse to have appeared, name o
Tenebrus, hes my special favorite, firs one born here in the forest 
Are you aware, Umbridge said loudly, interrupting him, that the
Ministry of Magic has classified thestrals as dangerous?
Harrys heart sank like a stone, but Hagrid merely chuckled.
Thestrals aren dangerous! All righ, they might take a bite outta
you if yeh really annoy them 
 Shows . . . signs . . . of . . . pleasure . . . at . . . idea . . . of . . . vio
lence . . .   muttered Umbridge, scribbling on her clipboard again.


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
No  come on! said Hagrid, looking a little anxious now. I
mean, a dogll bite if yeh bait it, won it  but thestrals have jus got
a bad reputation because o the death thing  people used ter think
they were bad omens, didn they? Jus didn understand, did they?
Umbridge did not answer she finished writing her last note, then
looked up at Hagrid and said, again very loudly and slowly, Please
continue teaching as usual. I am going to walk  she mimed walk
ing  Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson were having silent fits of laughter
 among the students  she pointed around at individual mem
bers of the class  and ask them questions. She pointed at her
mouth to indicate talking.
Hagrid stared at her, clearly at a complete loss to understand why
she was acting as though he did not understand normal English.
Hermione had tears of fury in her eyes now.
You hag, you evil hag! she whispered, as Umbridge walked to
ward Pansy Parkinson. I know what youre doing, you awful, twisted,
vicious 
Erm . . . anyway, said Hagrid, clearly struggling to regain the
flow of his lesson, so  thestrals. Yeah. Well, theres loads o good
stuff abou them. . . .
Do you find, said Professor Umbridge in a ringing voice to Pansy
Parkinson, that you are able to understand Professor Hagrid when he
talks?
Just like Hermione, Pansy had tears in her eyes, but these were tears
of laughter indeed, her answer was almost incoherent because she was
trying to suppress her giggles. No . . . because . . . well . . . it sounds
. . . like grunting a lot of the time. . . .
Umbridge scribbled on her clipboard. The few unbruised bits of
Hagrids face flushed, but he tried to act as though he had not heard
Pansys answer.
Er . . . yeah . . . good stuff abou thestrals. Well, once theyre


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
tamed, like this lot, yehll never be lost again. Mazin senses o direc
tion, jus tell em where yeh want ter go 
Assuming they can understand you, of course, said Malfoy
loudly, and Pansy Parkinson collapsed in a fit of renewed giggles. Pro
fessor Umbridge smiled indulgently at them and then turned to
Neville.
You can see the thestrals, Longbottom, can you? she said.
Neville nodded.
Whom did you see die? she asked, her tone indifferent.
My . . . my grandad, said Neville.
And what do you think of them? she said, waving her stubby
hand at the horses, who by now had stripped a great deal of the car
cass down to bone.
Erm, said Neville nervously, with a glance at Hagrid. Well,
theyre . . . er . . . okay. . . .
 Students . . . are . . . too . . . intimidated . . . to . . . admit . . . they
. . . are . . . frightened. . . .  muttered Umbridge, making another
note on her clipboard.
No! said Neville, looking upset, no, Im not scared of them  !
Its quite all right, said Umbridge, patting Neville on the shoul
der with what she evidently intended to be an understanding smile,
though it looked more like a leer to Harry. Well, Hagrid, she turned
to look up at him again, speaking once more in that loud, slow voice,
I think Ive got enough to be getting along with. . . . You will re
ceive  she mimed taking something from the air in front of her 
the results of your inspection  she pointed at the clipboard  in
ten days time. She held up ten stubby little fingers, then, her smile
wider and more toadlike than ever before beneath her green hat, she
bustled from their midst, leaving Malfoy and Pansy Parkinson in fits
of laughter, Hermione actually shaking with fury, and Neville looking
confused and upset.


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
That foul, lying, twisting old gargoyle! stormed Hermione half
an hour later, as they made their way back up to the castle through the
channels they had made earlier in the snow. You see what shes up to?
Its her thing about halfbreeds all over again  shes trying to make
out Hagrids some kind of dimwitted troll, just because he had a gi
antess for a mother  and oh, its not fair, that really wasnt a bad les
son at all  I mean, all right, if it had been BlastEnded Skrewts
again, but thestrals are fine  in fact, for Hagrid, theyre really good!
Umbridge said theyre dangerous, said Ron.
Well, its like Hagrid said, they can look after themselves, said
Hermione impatiently, and I suppose a teacher like GrubblyPlank
wouldnt usually show them to us before N.E.W.T. level, but, well,
they are very interesting, arent they? The way some people can see
them and some cant! I wish I could.
Do you? Harry asked her quietly.
She looked horrorstruck.
Oh Harry  Im sorry  no, of course I dont  that was a re
ally stupid thing to say 
Its okay, he said quickly, dont worry. . . .
Im surprised so many people could see them, said Ron. Three in
a class 
Yeah, Weasley, we were just wondering, said a malicious voice
nearby. Unheard by any of them in the muffling snow, Malfoy,
Crabbe, and Goyle were walking along right behind them. Dyou
reckon if you saw someone snuff it youd be able to see the Quaffle
better?
He, Crabbe, and Goyle roared with laughter as they pushed past on
their way to the castle and then broke into a chorus of Weasley Is
Our King. Rons ears turned scarlet.
Ignore them, just ignore them, intoned Hermione, pulling out
her wand and performing the charm to produce hot air again, so that


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
she could melt them an easier path through the untouched snow be
tween them and the greenhouses.
December arrived, bringing with it more snow and a positive
avalanche of homework for the fifth years. Ron and Hermiones pre
fect duties also became more and more onerous as Christmas ap
proached. They were called upon to supervise the decoration of the
castle You try putting up tinsel when Peeves has got the other end
and is trying to strangle you with it, said Ron, to watch over first
and second years spending their break times inside because of the bit
ter cold And theyre cheeky little snotrags, you know, we definitely
werent that rude when we were in first year, said Ron, and to patrol
the corridors in shifts with Argus Filch, who suspected that the holi
day spirit might show itself in an outbreak of wizard duels Hes got
dung for brains, that one, said Ron furiously. They were so busy that
Hermione had stopped knitting elf hats and was fretting that she was
down to her last three.
All those poor elves I havent set free yet, having to stay over dur
ing Christmas because there arent enough hats!
Harry, who had not had the heart to tell her that Dobby was taking
everything she made, bent lower over his History of Magic essay. In
any case, he did not want to think about Christmas. For the first time
in his school career, he very much wanted to spend the holidays away
from Hogwarts. Between his Quidditch ban and worry about whether
or not Hagrid was going to be put on probation, he felt highly resent
ful toward the place at the moment. The only thing he really looked
forward to were the D.A. meetings, and they would have to stop over
the holidays, as nearly everybody in the D.A. would be spending the
time with their families. Hermione was going skiing with her parents,
something that greatly amused Ron, who had never before heard of
Muggles strapping narrow strips of wood to their feet to slide down


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
mountains. Ron, meanwhile, was going home to the Burrow. Harry
endured several days of jealousy before Ron said, in response to Harry
asking how Ron was going to get home for Christmas, But youre
coming too! Didnt I say? Mum wrote and told me to invite you weeks
ago!
Hermione rolled her eyes, but Harrys spirits soared The thought
of Christmas at the Burrow was truly wonderful, only slightly marred
by Harrys guilty feeling that he would not be able to spend the holi
day with Sirius. He wondered whether he could possibly persuade
Mrs. Weasley to invite his godfather for the festivities too, but apart
from the fact that he doubted whether Dumbledore would permit Sir
ius to leave Grimmauld Place, he could not help but feel that Mrs.
Weasley might not want him they were so often at loggerheads. Sir
ius had not contacted Harry at all since his last appearance in the fire,
and although Harry knew that with Umbridge on the constant watch
it would be unwise to attempt to contact him, he did not like to think
of Sirius alone in his mothers old house, perhaps pulling a lonely
cracker with Kreacher.
Harry arrived early in the Room of Requirement for the last D.A.
meeting before the holidays and was very glad he had, because when
the lamps burst into light he saw that Dobby had taken it upon him
self to decorate the place for Christmas. He could tell the elf had done
it, because nobody else would have strung a hundred golden baubles
from the ceiling, each showing a picture of Harrys face and bearing
the legend HAVE A VERY HARRY CHRISTMAS!
Harry had only just managed to get the last of them down before
the door creaked open and Luna Lovegood entered, looking dreamy
as always.
Hello, she said vaguely, looking around at what remained of the
decorations. These are nice, did you put them up?
No, said Harry, it was Dobby the houseelf.


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
Mistletoe, said Luna dreamily, pointing at a large clump of white
berries placed almost over Harrys head. He jumped out from under
it. Good thinking, said Luna very seriously. Its often infested with
nargles.
Harry was saved the necessity of asking what nargles were by the
arrival of Angelina, Katie, and Alicia. All three of them were breath
less and looked very cold.
Well, said Angelina dully, pulling off her cloak and throwing it
into a corner, weve replaced you.
Replaced me? said Harry blankly.
You and Fred and George, she said impatiently. Weve got an
other Seeker!
Who? said Harry quickly.
Ginny Weasley, said Katie.
Harry gaped at her.
Yeah, I know, said Angelina, pulling out her wand and flexing her
arm. But shes pretty good, actually. Nothing on you, of course, she
said, throwing him a very dirty look, but as we cant have you . . .
Harry bit back the retort he was longing to utter Did she imagine
for a second that he did not regret his expulsion from the team a hun
dred times more than she did?
And what about the Beaters? he asked, trying to keep his voice
even.
Andrew Kirke, said Alicia without enthusiasm, and Jack Sloper.
Neither of them are brilliant, but compared with the rest of the idiots
who turned up . . .
The arrival of Ron, Hermione, and Neville brought this depressing
discussion to an end and within five minutes, the room was full
enough to prevent him seeing Angelinas burning, reproachful looks.
Okay, he said, calling them all to order. I thought this evening
we should just go over the things weve done so far, because its the last


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
meeting before the holidays and theres no point starting anything
new right before a threeweek break 
Were not doing anything new? said Zacharias Smith, in a dis
gruntled whisper loud enough to carry through the room. If Id
known that, I wouldnt have come. . . .
Were all really sorry Harry didnt tell you, then, said Fred loudly.
Several people sniggered. Harry saw Cho laughing and felt the fa
miliar swooping sensation in his stomach, as though he had missed a
step going downstairs.
We can practice in pairs, said Harry. Well start with the Im
pediment Jinx, just for ten minutes, then we can get out the cushions
and try Stunning again.
They all divided up obediently Harry partnered Neville as usual.
The room was soon full of intermittent cries of Impedimenta! People
froze for a minute or so, during which their partners would stare
aimlessly around the room watching other pairs at work, then would
unfreeze and take their turn at the jinx.
Neville had improved beyond all recognition. After a while, when
Harry had unfrozen three times in a row, he had Neville join Ron and
Hermione again so that he could walk around the room and watch the
others. When he passed Cho she beamed at him he resisted the temp
tation to walk past her several more times.
After ten minutes on the Impediment Jinx, they laid out cushions
all over the floor and started practicing Stunning again. Space was
really too confined to allow them all to work this spell at once half the
group observed the others for a while, then swapped over. Harry felt
himself positively swelling with pride as he watched them all. True,
Neville did Stun Padma Patil rather than Dean, at whom he had been
aiming, but it was a much closer miss than usual, and everybody else
had made enormous progress.
At the end of an hour, Harry called a halt.


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
Youre getting really good, he said, beaming around at them.
When we get back from the holidays we can start doing some of the
big stuff  maybe even Patronuses.
There was a murmur of excitement. The room began to clear in the
usual twos and threes most people wished Harry a Happy Christmas
as they went. Feeling cheerful, he collected up the cushions with Ron
and Hermione and stacked them neatly away. Ron and Hermione left
before he did he hung back a little, because Cho was still there and he
was hoping to receive a Merry Christmas from her.
No, you go on, he heard her say to her friend Marietta, and his
heart gave a jolt that seemed to take it into the region of his Adams
apple.
He pretended to be straightening the cushion pile. He was quite
sure they were alone now and waited for her to speak. Instead, he
heard a hearty sniff.
He turned and saw Cho standing in the middle of the room, tears
pouring down her face.
Wha  ?
He didnt know what to do. She was simply standing there, crying
silently.
Whats up? he said feebly.
She shook her head and wiped her eyes on her sleeve. Im 
sorry, she said thickly. I suppose . . . its just . . . learning all this
stuff. . . . It just makes me . . . wonder whether . . . if hed known it all
. . . hed still be alive. . . .
Harrys heart sank right back past its usual spot and settled some
where around his navel. He ought to have known. She wanted to talk
about Cedric.
He did know this stuff, Harry said heavily. He was really good
at it, or he could never have got to the middle of that maze. But if
Voldemort really wants to kill you, you dont stand a chance.


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
She hiccuped at the sound of Voldemorts name, but stared at
Harry without flinching.
You survived when you were just a baby, she said quietly.
Yeah, well, said Harry wearily, moving toward the door, I dunno
why, nor does anyone else, so its nothing to be proud of.
Oh dont go! said Cho, sounding tearful again. Im really sorry
to get all upset like this. . . . I didnt mean to. . . .
She hiccuped again. She was very pretty even when her eyes were
red and puffy. Harry felt thoroughly miserable. Hed have been so
pleased just with a Merry Christmas. . . .
I know it must be horrible for you, she said, mopping her eyes on
her sleeve again. Me mentioning Cedric, when you saw him die. . . .
I suppose you just want to forget about it. . . .
Harry did not say anything to this it was quite true, but he felt
heartless saying it.
Youre a rreally good teacher, you know, said Cho, with a watery
smile. Ive never been able to Stun anything before.
Thanks, said Harry awkwardly.
They looked at each other for a long moment. Harry felt a burning
desire to run from the room and, at the same time, a complete inabil
ity to move his feet.
Mistletoe, said Cho quietly, pointing at the ceiling over his head.
Yeah, said Harry. His mouth was very dry. Its probably full of
nargles, though.
What are nargles?
No idea, said Harry. She had moved closer. His brain seemed to
have been Stunned. Youd have to ask Loony. Luna, I mean.
Cho made a funny noise halfway between a sob and a laugh. She
was even nearer him now. He could have counted the freckles on her
nose.
I really like you, Harry.


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
He could not think. A tingling sensation was spreading throughout
him, paralyzing his arms, legs, and brain.
She was much too close. He could see every tear clinging to her
eyelashes. . . .
He returned to the common room half an hour later to find
Hermione and Ron in the best seats by the fire nearly everybody else
had gone to bed. Hermione was writing a very long letter she had al
ready filled half a roll of parchment, which was dangling from the
edge of the table. Ron was lying on the hearthrug, trying to finish his
Transfiguration homework.
What kept you? he asked, as Harry sank into the armchair next
to Hermiones.
Harry did not answer. He was in a state of shock. Half of him
wanted to tell Ron and Hermione what had just happened, but the
other half wanted to take the secret with him to the grave.
Are you all right, Harry? Hermione asked, peering at him over
the tip of her quill.
Harry gave a halfhearted shrug. In truth, he didnt know whether
he was all right or not. Whats up? said Ron, hoisting himself up on
his elbow to get a clearer view of Harry. Whats happened?
Harry didnt quite know how to set about telling them, and still
wasnt sure whether he wanted to. Just as he had decided not to say
anything, Hermione took matters out of his hands.
Is it Cho? she asked in a businesslike way. Did she corner you af
ter the meeting?
Numbly surprised, Harry nodded. Ron sniggered, breaking off
when Hermione caught his eye.
So  er  what did she want? he asked in a mock casual voice.
She  Harry began, rather hoarsely he cleared his throat and
tried again. She  er 


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
Did you kiss? asked Hermione briskly.
Ron sat up so fast that he sent his ink bottle flying all over the rug.
Disregarding this completely he stared avidly at Harry.
Well? he demanded.
Harry looked from Rons expression of mingled curiosity and hilar
ity to Hermiones slight frown, and nodded.
HA!
Ron made a triumphant gesture with his fist and went into a rau
cous peal of laughter that made several timidlooking second years
over beside the window jump. A reluctant grin spread over Harrys
face as he watched Ron rolling around on the hearthrug. Hermione
gave Ron a look of deep disgust and returned to her letter.
Well? Ron said finally, looking up at Harry. How was it?
Harry considered for a moment.
Wet, he said truthfully.
Ron made a noise that might have indicated jubilation or disgust,
it was hard to tell.
Because she was crying, Harry continued heavily.
Oh, said Ron, his smile fading slightly. Are you that bad at
kissing?
Dunno, said Harry, who hadnt considered this, and immediately
felt rather worried. Maybe I am.
Of course youre not, said Hermione absently, still scribbling
away at her letter.
How do you know? said Ron in a sharp voice.
Because Cho spends half her time crying these days, said Her
mione vaguely. She does it at mealtimes, in the loos, all over the
place.
Youd think a bit of kissing would cheer her up, said Ron,
grinning.
Ron, said Hermione in a dignified voice, dipping the point of her


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
quill into her ink pot, you are the most insensitive wart I have ever
had the misfortune to meet.
Whats that supposed to mean? said Ron indignantly. What sort
of person cries while someones kissing them?
Yeah, said Harry, slightly desperately, who does?
Hermione looked at the pair of them with an almost pitying ex
pression on her face.
Dont you understand how Chos feeling at the moment? she
asked.
No, said Harry and Ron together.
Hermione sighed and laid down her quill.
Well, obviously, shes feeling very sad, because of Cedric dying.
Then I expect shes feeling confused because she liked Cedric and now
she likes Harry, and she cant work out who she likes best. Then shell
be feeling guilty, thinking its an insult to Cedrics memory to be kiss
ing Harry at all, and shell be worrying about what everyone else
might say about her if she starts going out with Harry. And she prob
ably cant work out what her feelings toward Harry are anyway, be
cause he was the one who was with Cedric when Cedric died, so thats
all very mixed up and painful. Oh, and shes afraid shes going to be
thrown off the Ravenclaw Quidditch team because shes been flying so
badly.
A slightly stunned silence greeted the end of this speech, then Ron
said, One person cant feel all that at once, theyd explode.
Just because youve got the emotional range of a teaspoon doesnt
mean we all have, said Hermione nastily, picking up her quill again.
She was the one who started it, said Harry. I wouldntve  she
just sort of came at me  and next thing shes crying all over me  I
didnt know what to do 
Dont blame you, mate, said Ron, looking alarmed at the very
thought.


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
You just had to be nice to her, said Hermione, looking up anx
iously. You were, werent you?
Well, said Harry, an unpleasant heat creeping up his face, I sort
of  patted her on the back a bit.
Hermione looked as though she was restraining herself from rolling
her eyes with extreme difficulty.
Well, I suppose it could have been worse, she said. Are you go
ing to see her again?
Ill have to, wont I? said Harry. Weve got D.A. meetings,
havent we?
You know what I mean, said Hermione impatiently.
Harry said nothing. Hermiones words opened up a whole new
vista of frightening possibilities. He tried to imagine going somewhere
with Cho  Hogsmeade, perhaps  and being alone with her for
hours at a time. Of course, she would have been expecting him to ask
her out after what had just happened. . . . The thought made his
stomach clench painfully.
Oh well, said Hermione distantly, buried in her letter once more,
youll have plenty of opportunities to ask her. . . .
What if he doesnt want to ask her? said Ron, who had been
watching Harry with an unusually shrewd expression on his face.
Dont be silly, said Hermione vaguely, Harrys liked her for ages,
havent you, Harry?
He did not answer. Yes, he had liked Cho for ages, but whenever he
had imagined a scene involving the two of them it had always featured
a Cho who was enjoying herself, as opposed to a Cho who was sob
bing uncontrollably into his shoulder.
Whore you writing the novel to anyway? Ron asked Hermione,
trying to read the bit of parchment now trailing on the floor.
Hermione hitched it up out of sight.
Viktor.


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
Krum?
How many other Viktors do we know?
Ron said nothing, but looked disgruntled. They sat in silence for
another twenty minutes, Ron finishing his Transfiguration essay with
many snorts of impatience and crossingsout, Hermione writing
steadily to the very end of the parchment, rolling it up carefully and
sealing it, and Harry staring into the fire, wishing more than anything
that Siriuss head would appear there and give him some advice about
girls. But the fire merely crackled lower and lower, until the redhot
embers crumbled into ash and, looking around, Harry saw that they
were, yet again, the last in the common room.
Well, night, said Hermione, yawning widely, and she set off up
the girls staircase.
What does she see in Krum? Ron demanded as he and Harry
climbed the boys stairs.
Well, said Harry, considering the matter, I spose hes older, isnt
he . . . and hes an international Quidditch player. . . .
Yeah, but apart from that, said Ron, sounding aggravated. I
mean hes a grouchy git, isnt he?
Bit grouchy, yeah, said Harry, whose thoughts were still on Cho.
They pulled off their robes and put on pajamas in silence Dean,
Seamus, and Neville were already asleep. Harry put his glasses on his
bedside table and got into bed but did not pull the hangings closed
around his fourposter instead he stared at the patch of starry sky vis
ible through the window next to Nevilles bed. If he had known, this
time last night, that in twentyfour hours time he would have kissed
Cho Chang . . .
 Night, grunted Ron, from somewhere to his right.
 Night, said Harry.
Maybe next time . . . if there was a next time . . . shed be a bit
happier. He ought to have asked her out she had probably been


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
expecting it and was now really angry with him . . . or was she lying in
bed, still crying about Cedric? He did not know what to think.
Hermiones explanation had made it all seem more complicated rather
than easier to understand.
Thats what they should teach us here, he thought, turning over onto
his side, how girls brains work . . . itd be more useful than Divination
anyway. . . .
Neville snuffled in his sleep. An owl hooted somewhere out in the
night.
Harry dreamed he was back in the D.A. room. Cho was accusing
him of luring her there under false pretenses she said that he had
promised her a hundred and fifty Chocolate Frog cards if she showed
up. Harry protested. . . . Cho shouted, Cedric gave me loads of Choco
late Frog cards, look ! And she pulled out fistfuls of cards from inside
her robes and threw them into the air, and then turned into
Hermione, who said, You did promise her, you know, Harry. . . . I
think youd better give her something else instead. . . . How about your
Firebolt? And Harry was protesting that he could not give Cho his
Firebolt because Umbridge had it, and anyway the whole thing was
ridiculous, hed only come to the D.A. room to put up some Christ
mas baubles shaped like Dobbys head. . . .
The dream changed. . . .
His body felt smooth, powerful, and flexible. He was gliding be
tween shining metal bars, across dark, cold stone. . . . He was flat
against the floor, sliding along on his belly. . . . It was dark, yet he
could see objects around him shimmering in strange, vibrant colors.
. . . He was turning his head. . . . At first glance, the corridor was
empty . . . but no . . . a man was sitting on the floor ahead, his chin
drooping onto his chest, his outline gleaming in the dark. . . .
Harry put out his tongue. . . . He tasted the mans scent on the air.
. . . He was alive but drowsing . . . sitting in front of a door at the end
of the corridor . . .


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
Harry longed to bite the man . . . but he must master the impulse.
. . . He had more important work to do. . . .
But the man was stirring . . . a silvery cloak fell from his legs as he
jumped to his feet and Harry saw his vibrant, blurred outline tower
ing above him, saw a wand withdrawn from a belt. . . . He had no
choice. . . . He reared high from the floor and struck once, twice,
three times, plunging his fangs deeply into the mans flesh, feeling his
ribs splinter beneath his jaws, feeling the warm gush of blood. . . .
The man was yelling in pain . . . then he fell silent. . . . He slumped
backward against the wall. . . . Blood was splattering onto the floor. . . .
His forehead hurt terribly. . . . It was aching fit to burst. . . .
Harry! HARRY!
He opened his eyes. Every inch of his body was covered in icy
sweat his bedcovers were twisted all around him like a straitjacket he
felt as though a whitehot poker was being applied to his forehead.
Harry!
Ron was standing over him looking extremely frightened. There
were more figures at the foot of Harrys bed. He clutched his head in
his hands the pain was blinding him. . . . He rolled right over and
vomited over the edge of the mattress.
Hes really ill, said a scared voice. Should we call someone?
Harry! Harry!
He had to tell Ron, it was very important that he tell him. . . . Tak
ing great gulps of air, Harry pushed himself up in bed, willing himself
not to throw up again, the pain halfblinding him.
Your dad, he panted, his chest heaving. Your dads . . . been
attacked. . . .
What? said Ron uncomprehendingly.
Your dad! Hes been bitten, its serious, there was blood
everywhere. . . .
Im going for help, said the same scared voice, and Harry heard
footsteps running out of the dormitory.


CHAPTER TWENTYONE
Harry, mate, said Ron uncertainly, you . . . you were just
dreaming. . . .
No! said Harry furiously it was crucial that Ron understand. It
wasnt a dream . . . not an ordinary dream. . . . I was there, I saw it.
. . . I did it. . . .
He could hear Seamus and Dean muttering but did not care. The
pain in his forehead was subsiding slightly, though he was still sweat
ing and shivering feverishly. He retched again and Ron leapt backward
out of the way.
Harry, youre not well, he said shakily. Nevilles gone for
help. . . .
Im fine! Harry choked, wiping his mouth on his pajamas and
shaking uncontrollably. Theres nothing wrong with me, its your dad
youve got to worry about  we need to find out where he is  hes
bleeding like mad  I was  it was a huge snake. . . .
He tried to get out of bed but Ron pushed him back into it Dean
and Seamus were still whispering somewhere nearby. Whether one
minute passed or ten, Harry did not know he simply sat there shak
ing, feeling the pain recede very slowly from his scar. . . . Then there
were hurried footsteps coming up the stairs, and he heard Nevilles
voice again.
Over here, Professor . . .
Professor McGonagall came hurrying into the dormitory in her tar
tan dressing gown, her glasses perched lopsidedly on the bridge of her
bony nose.
What is it, Potter? Where does it hurt?
He had never been so pleased to see her it was a member of the Or
der of the Phoenix he needed now, not someone fussing over him and
prescribing useless potions.
Its Rons dad, he said, sitting up again. Hes been attacked by a
snake and its serious, I saw it happen.


THE EYE OF THE SNAKE
What do you mean, you saw it happen? said Professor McGona
gall, her dark eyebrows contracting.
I dont know. . . . I was asleep and then I was there. . . .
You mean you dreamed this?
No! said Harry angrily. Would none of them understand? I was
having a dream at first about something completely different, some
thing stupid . . . and then this interrupted it. It was real, I didnt imag
ine it, Mr. Weasley was asleep on the floor and he was attacked by a
gigantic snake, there was a load of blood, he collapsed, someones got
to find out where he is. . . .
Professor McGonagall was gazing at him through her lopsided
spectacles as though horrified at what she was seeing.
Im not lying, and Im not mad! Harry told her, his voice rising to
a shout. I tell you, I saw it happen!
I believe you, Potter, said Professor McGonagall curtly. Put on
your dressinggown  were going to see the headmaster.


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y  T W O
ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
H
arry was so relieved that she was taking him seriously that he
did not hesitate, but jumped out of bed at once, pulled on
his dressing gown, and pushed his glasses back onto his nose.
Weasley, you ought to come too, said Professor McGonagall.
They followed Professor McGonagall past the silent figures of
Neville, Dean, and Seamus, out of the dormitory, down the spiral
stairs into the common room, through the portrait hole, and off along
the Fat Ladys moonlit corridor. Harry felt as though the panic inside
him might spill over at any moment he wanted to run, to yell for
Dumbledore. Mr. Weasley was bleeding as they walked along so se
dately, and what if those fangs Harry tried hard not to think my
fangs had been poisonous? They passed Mrs. Norris, who turned her
lamplike eyes upon them and hissed faintly, but Professor McGona
gall said, Shoo! Mrs. Norris slunk away into the shadows, and in a
few minutes they had reached the stone gargoyle guarding the en
trance to Dumbledores office.
Fizzing Whizbee, said Professor McGonagall.


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
The gargoyle sprang to life and leapt aside the wall behind it split
in two to reveal a stone staircase that was moving continuously up
ward like a spiral escalator. The three of them stepped onto the mov
ing stairs the wall closed behind them with a thud, and they were
moving upward in tight circles until they reached the highly polished
oak door with the brass knocker shaped like a griffin.
Though it was now well past midnight, there were voices coming
from inside the room, a positive babble of them. It sounded as though
Dumbledore was entertaining at least a dozen people.
Professor McGonagall rapped three times with the griffin knocker,
and the voices ceased abruptly as though someone had switched them
all off. The door opened of its own accord and Professor McGonagall
led Harry and Ron inside.
The room was in half darkness the strange silver instruments
standing on tables were silent and still rather than whirring and emit
ting puffs of smoke as they usually did. The portraits of old headmas
ters and headmistresses covering the walls were all snoozing in their
frames. Behind the door, a magnificent redandgold bird the size of a
swan dozed on its perch with its head under its wing.
Oh, its you, Professor McGonagall . . . and . . . ah.
Dumbledore was sitting in a highbacked chair behind his desk he
leaned forward into the pool of candlelight illuminating the papers
laid out before him. He was wearing a magnificently embroidered
purpleandgold dressing gown over a snowywhite nightshirt, but
seemed wide awake, his penetrating lightblue eyes fixed intently
upon Professor McGonagall.
Professor Dumbledore, Potter has had a . . . well, a nightmare,
said Professor McGonagall. He says . . .
It wasnt a nightmare, said Harry quickly.
Professor McGonagall looked around at Harry, frowning slightly.
Very well, then, Potter, you tell the headmaster about it.
I . . . well, I was asleep. . . . said Harry and even in his terror and


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
his desperation to make Dumbledore understand he felt slightly irri
tated that the headmaster was not looking at him, but examining his
own interlocked fingers. But it wasnt an ordinary dream . . . it was
real. . . . I saw it happen. . . . He took a deep breath, Rons dad 
Mr. Weasley  has been attacked by a giant snake.
The words seemed to reverberate in the air after he had said them,
slightly ridiculous, even comic. There was a pause in which Dumble
dore leaned back and stared meditatively at the ceiling. Ron looked
from Harry to Dumbledore, whitefaced and shocked.
How did you see this? Dumbledore asked quietly, still not look
ing at Harry.
Well . . . I dont know, said Harry, rather angrily  what did it
matter? Inside my head, I suppose 
You misunderstand me, said Dumbledore, still in the same calm
tone. I mean . . . can you remember  er  where you were posi
tioned as you watched this attack happen? Were you perhaps standing
beside the victim, or else looking down on the scene from above?
This was such a curious question that Harry gaped at Dumbledore
it was almost as though he knew . . .
I was the snake, he said. I saw it all from the snakes point of
view. . . .
Nobody else spoke for a moment, then Dumbledore, now looking
at Ron, who was still wheyfaced, said in a new and sharper voice, Is
Arthur seriously injured?
Yes, said Harry emphatically  why were they all so slow on the
uptake, did they not realize how much a person bled when fangs that
long pierced their side? And why could Dumbledore not do him the
courtesy of looking at him?
But Dumbledore stood up so quickly that Harry jumped, and ad
dressed one of the old portraits hanging very near the ceiling.
Everard? he said sharply. And you too, Dilys!
A sallowfaced wizard with short, black bangs and an elderly witch


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
with long silver ringlets in the frame beside him, both of whom
seemed to have been in the deepest of sleeps, opened their eyes
immediately.
You were listening? said Dumbledore.
The wizard nodded, the witch said, Naturally.
The man has red hair and glasses, said Dumbledore. Everard,
you will need to raise the alarm, make sure he is found by the right
people 
Both nodded and moved sideways out of their frames, but instead
of emerging in neighboring pictures as usually happened at Hog
warts, neither reappeared one frame now contained nothing but a
backdrop of dark curtain, the other a handsome leather armchair.
Harry noticed that many of the other headmasters and mistresses on
the walls, though snoring and drooling most convincingly, kept
sneaking peeks at him under their eyelids, and he suddenly under
stood who had been talking when they had knocked.
Everard and Dilys were two of Hogwartss most celebrated Heads,
Dumbledore said, now sweeping around Harry, Ron, and Professor
McGonagall and approaching the magnificent sleeping bird on his
perch beside the door. Their renown is such that both have portraits
hanging in other important Wizarding institutions. As they are free to
move between their own portraits they can tell us what may be hap
pening elsewhere. . . .
But Mr. Weasley could be anywhere! said Harry.
Please sit down, all three of you, said Dumbledore, as though
Harry had not spoken. Everard and Dilys may not be back for several
minutes. . . . Professor McGonagall, if you could draw up extra
chairs . . .
Professor McGonagall pulled her wand from the pocket of her
dressing gown and waved it three chairs appeared out of thin air,
straightbacked and wooden, quite unlike the comfortable chintz
armchairs that Dumbledore had conjured back at Harrys hearing.


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
Harry sat down, watching Dumbledore over his shoulder. Dumble
dore was now stroking Fawkess plumed golden head with one finger.
The phoenix awoke immediately. He stretched his beautiful head high
and observed Dumbledore through bright, dark eyes.
We will need, said Dumbledore very quietly to the bird, a
warning.
There was a flash of fire and the phoenix had gone.
Dumbledore now swooped down upon one of the fragile silver in
struments whose function Harry had never known, carried it over to
his desk, sat down facing them again, and tapped it gently with the tip
of his wand.
The instrument tinkled into life at once with rhythmic clinking
noises. Tiny puffs of pale green smoke issued from the minuscule sil
ver tube at the top. Dumbledore watched the smoke closely, his brow
furrowed, and after a few seconds, the tiny puffs became a steady
stream of smoke that thickened and coiled in the air. . . . A serpents
head grew out of the end of it, opening its mouth wide. Harry won
dered whether the instrument was confirming his story He looked
eagerly at Dumbledore for a sign that he was right, but Dumbledore
did not look up.
Naturally, naturally, murmured Dumbledore apparently to him
self, still observing the stream of smoke without the slightest sign of
surprise. But in essence divided?
Harry could make neither head nor tail of this question. The
smoke serpent, however, split itself instantly into two snakes, both
coiling and undulating in the dark air. With a look of grim satisfaction
Dumbledore gave the instrument another gentle tap with his wand
The clinking noise slowed and died, and the smoke serpents grew
faint, became a formless haze, and vanished.
Dumbledore replaced the instrument upon its spindly little table
Harry saw many of the old headmasters in the portraits follow him
with their eyes, then, realizing that Harry was watching them, hastily


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
pretend to be sleeping again. Harry wanted to ask what the strange sil
ver instrument was for, but before he could do so, there was a shout
from the top of the wall to their right the wizard called Everard had
reappeared in his portrait, panting slightly.
Dumbledore!
What news? said Dumbledore at once.
I yelled until someone came running, said the wizard, who was
mopping his brow on the curtain behind him, said Id heard some
thing moving downstairs  they werent sure whether to believe me
but went down to check  you know there are no portraits down
there to watch from. Anyway, they carried him up a few minutes later.
He doesnt look good, hes covered in blood, I ran along to Elfrida
Craggs portrait to get a good view as they left 
Good, said Dumbledore as Ron made a convulsive movement, I
take it Dilys will have seen him arrive, then 
And moments later, the silverringletted witch had reappeared in
her picture too she sank, coughing, into her armchair and said, Yes,
theyve taken him to St. Mungos, Dumbledore. . . . They carried him
past under my portrait. . . . He looks bad. . . .
Thank you, said Dumbledore. He looked around at Professor
McGonagall.
Minerva, I need you to go and wake the other Weasley children.
Of course. . . .
Professor McGonagall got up and moved swiftly to the door Harry
cast a sideways glance at Ron, who was now looking terrified.
And Dumbledore  what about Molly? said Professor McGona
gall, pausing at the door.
That will be a job for Fawkes when he has finished keeping a
lookout for anybody approaching, said Dumbledore. But she may
already know . . . that excellent clock of hers . . .
Harry knew Dumbledore was referring to the clock that told, not
the time, but the whereabouts and conditions of the various Weasley


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
family members, and with a pang he thought that Mr. Weasleys hand
must, even now, be pointing at mortal peril. But it was very late. . . .
Mrs. Weasley was probably asleep, not watching the clock. . . . And
he felt cold as he remembered Mrs. Weasleys boggart turning into
Mr. Weasleys lifeless body, his glasses askew, blood running down his
face. . . . But Mr. Weasley wasnt going to die. . . . He couldnt. . . .
Dumbledore was now rummaging in a cupboard behind Harry and
Ron. He emerged from it carrying a blackened old kettle, which he
placed carefully upon his desk. He raised his wand and murmured
Portus for a moment the kettle trembled, glowing with an odd blue
light, then it quivered to a rest, as solidly black as ever.
Dumbledore marched over to another portrait, this time of a
cleverlooking wizard with a pointed beard, who had been painted
wearing the Slytherin colors of green and silver and was apparently
sleeping so deeply that he could not hear Dumbledores voice when he
attempted to rouse him.
Phineas. Phineas.
And now the subjects of the portraits lining the room were no
longer pretending to be asleep they were shifting around in their
frames, the better to watch what was happening. When the clever
looking wizard continued to feign sleep, some of them shouted his
name too.
Phineas! Phineas! PHINEAS!
He could not pretend any longer he gave a theatrical jerk and
opened his eyes wide.
Did someone call?
I need you to visit your other portrait again, Phineas, said Dum
bledore. Ive got another message.
Visit my other portrait? said Phineas in a reedy voice, giving a
long, fake yawn his eyes traveling around the room and focusing
upon Harry. Oh no, Dumbledore, I am too tired tonight. . . .
Something about Phineass voice was familiar to Harry. Where had


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
he heard it before? But before he could think, the portraits on the sur
rounding walls broke into a storm of protest.
Insubordination, sir! roared a corpulent, rednosed wizard, bran
dishing his fists. Dereliction of duty!
We are honorbound to give service to the present Headmaster of
Hogwarts! cried a fraillooking old wizard whom Harry recognized as
Dumbledores predecessor, Armando Dippet. Shame on you, Phineas!
Shall I persuade him, Dumbledore? called a gimleteyed witch,
raising an unusually thick wand that looked not unlike a birch rod.
Oh, very well, said the wizard called Phineas, eyeing this wand
slightly apprehensively, though he may well have destroyed my pic
ture by now, hes done most of the family 
Sirius knows not to destroy your portrait, said Dumbledore, and
Harry realized immediately where he had heard Phineass voice before
issuing from the apparently empty frame in his bedroom in Grim
mauld Place. You are to give him the message that Arthur Weasley
has been gravely injured and that his wife, children, and Harry Potter
will be arriving at his house shortly. Do you understand?
Arthur Weasley, injured, wife and children and Harry Potter
coming to stay, recited Phineas in a bored voice. Yes, yes . . . very
well. . . .
He sloped away into the frame of the portrait and disappeared from
view at the very moment that the study door opened again. Fred,
George, and Ginny were ushered inside by Professor McGonagall, all
three of them looking disheveled and shocked, still in their night
things.
Harry  whats going on? asked Ginny, who looked frightened.
Professor McGonagall says you saw Dad hurt 
Your father has been injured in the course of his work for the Or
der of the Phoenix, said Dumbledore before Harry could speak. He
has been taken to St. Mungos Hospital for Magical Maladies and In
juries. I am sending you back to Siriuss house, which is much more


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
convenient for the hospital than the Burrow. You will meet your
mother there.
Howre we going? asked Fred, looking shaken. Floo powder?
No, said Dumbledore, Floo powder is not safe at the moment,
the Network is being watched. You will be taking a Portkey. He indi
cated the old kettle lying innocently on his desk. We are just waiting
for Phineas Nigellus to report back. . . . I wish to be sure that the coast
is clear before sending you 
There was a flash of flame in the very middle of the office, leaving
behind a single golden feather that floated gently to the floor.
It is Fawkess warning, said Dumbledore, catching the feather as
it fell. She must know youre out of your beds. . . . Minerva, go and
head her off  tell her any story 
Professor McGonagall was gone in a swish of tartan.
He says hell be delighted, said a bored voice behind Dumble
dore the wizard called Phineas had reappeared in front of his
Slytherin banner. My greatgreatgrandson has always had odd taste
in houseguests. . . .
Come here, then, Dumbledore said to Harry and the Weasleys.
And quickly, before anyone else joins us . . .
Harry and the others gathered around Dumbledores desk.
You have all used a Portkey before? asked Dumbledore, and they
nodded, each reaching out to touch some part of the blackened kettle.
Good. On the count of three then . . . one . . . two . . .
It happened in a fraction of a second In the infinitesimal pause be
fore Dumbledore said three, Harry looked up at him  they were
very close together  and Dumbledores clear blue gaze moved from
the Portkey to Harrys face.
At once, Harrys scar burned whitehot, as though the old wound
had burst open again  and unbidden, unwanted, but terrifyingly
strong, there rose within Harry a hatred so powerful he felt, for that


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
instant, that he would like nothing better than to strike  to bite 
to sink his fangs into the man before him 
. . . three.
He felt a powerful jerk behind his navel, the ground vanished from
beneath his feet, his hand was glued to the kettle he was banging into
the others as all sped forward in a swirl of colors and a rush of wind,
the kettle pulling them onward and then 
His feet hit the ground so hard that his knees buckled, the kettle
clattered to the ground and somewhere close at hand a voice said,
Back again, the blood traitor brats, is it true their fathers dying . . . ?
OUT! roared a second voice.
Harry scrambled to his feet and looked around they had arrived in
the gloomy basement kitchen of number twelve, Grimmauld Place.
The only sources of light were the fire and one guttering candle,
which illuminated the remains of a solitary supper. Kreacher was dis
appearing through the door to the hall, looking back at them malevo
lently as he hitched up his loincloth Sirius was hurrying toward them
all, looking anxious. He was unshaven and still in his day clothes
there was also a slightly Mundunguslike whiff of stale drink about
him.
Whats going on? he said, stretching out a hand to help Ginny
up. Phineas Nigellus said Arthurs been badly injured 
Ask Harry, said Fred.
Yeah, I want to hear this for myself, said George.
The twins and Ginny were staring at him. Kreachers footsteps had
stopped on the stairs outside.
It was  Harry began this was even worse than telling McGona
gall and Dumbledore. I had a  a kind of  vision. . . .
And he told them all that he had seen, though he altered the story
so that it sounded as though he had watched from the sidelines as the
snake attacked, rather than from behind the snakes own eyes. . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
Ron, who was still very white, gave him a fleeting look, but did not
speak. When Harry had finished, Fred, George, and Ginny continued
to stare at him for a moment. Harry did not know whether he was
imagining it or not, but he fancied there was something accusatory in
their looks. Well, if they were going to blame him for just seeing the
attack, he was glad he had not told them that he had been inside the
snake at the time. . . .
Is Mum here? said Fred, turning to Sirius.
She probably doesnt even know whats happened yet, said Sirius.
The important thing was to get you away before Umbridge could in
terfere. I expect Dumbledores letting Molly know now.
Weve got to go to St. Mungos, said Ginny urgently. She looked
around at her brothers they were of course still in their pajamas. Sir
ius, can you lend us cloaks or anything  ?
Hang on, you cant go tearing off to St. Mungos! said Sirius.
 Course we can go to St. Mungos if we want, said Fred, with a
mulish expression, hes our dad!
And how are you going to explain how you knew Arthur was at
tacked before the hospital even let his wife know?
What does that matter? said George hotly.
It matters because we dont want to draw attention to the fact that
Harry is having visions of things that are happening hundreds of miles
away! said Sirius angrily. Have you any idea what the Ministry
would make of that information?
Fred and George looked as though they could not care less what the
Ministry made of anything. Ron was still whitefaced and silent.
Ginny said, Somebody else could have told us. . . . We could have
heard it somewhere other than Harry. . . .
Like who? said Sirius impatiently. Listen, your dads been hurt
while on duty for the Order and the circumstances are fishy enough
without his children knowing about it seconds after it happened, you
could seriously damage the Orders 


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
We dont care about the dumb Order! shouted Fred.
Its our dad dying were talking about! yelled George.
Your father knew what he was getting into, and he wont thank
you for messing things up for the Order! said Sirius angrily in his
turn. This is how it is  this is why youre not in the Order  you
dont understand  there are things worth dying for!
Easy for you to say, stuck here! bellowed Fred. I dont see you
risking your neck!
The little color remaining in Siriuss face drained from it. He
looked for a moment as though he would quite like to hit Fred, but
when he spoke, it was in a voice of determined calm. I know its hard,
but weve all got to act as though we dont know anything yet. Weve
got to stay put, at least until we hear from your mother, all right?
Fred and George still looked mutinous. Ginny, however, took a few
steps over to the nearest chair and sank into it. Harry looked at Ron,
who made a funny movement somewhere between a nod and shrug,
and they sat down too. The twins glared at Sirius for another minute,
then took seats on either side of Ginny.
Thats right, said Sirius encouragingly, come on, lets all . . . lets
all have a drink while were waiting. Accio Butterbeer!
He raised his wand as he spoke and half a dozen bottles came flying
toward them out of the pantry, skidded along the table, scattering the
debris of Siriuss meal, and stopped neatly in front of the six of them.
They all drank, and for a while the only sounds were those of the crack
ling of the kitchen fire and the soft thud of their bottles on the table.
Harry was only drinking to have something to do with his hands.
His stomach was full of horrible hot, bubbling guilt. They would not
be here if it were not for him they would all still be asleep in bed. And
it was no good telling himself that by raising the alarm he had ensured
that Mr. Weasley was found, because there was also the inescapable
business of it being he who had attacked Mr. Weasley in the first
place. . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
Dont be stupid, you havent got fangs, he told himself, trying to keep
calm, though the hand on his butterbeer bottle was shaking. You were
lying in bed, you werent attacking anyone. . . .
But then, what just happened in Dumbledores office? he asked him
self. I felt like I wanted to attack Dumbledore too. . . .
He put the bottle down on the table a little harder than he meant
to, so that it slopped over onto the table. No one took any notice.
Then a burst of fire in midair illuminated the dirty plates in front of
them and as they gave cries of shock, a scroll of parchment fell with a
thud onto the table, accompanied by a single golden phoenix tail
feather.
Fawkes! said Sirius at once, snatching up the parchment. Thats
not Dumbledores writing  it must be a message from your
mother  here 
He thrust the letter into Georges hand, who ripped it open and
read aloud, Dad is still alive. I am setting out for St. Mungos now. Stay
where you are. I will send news as soon as I can. Mum.
George looked around the table.
Still alive . . . he said slowly. But that makes it sound . . .
He did not need to finish the sentence. It sounded to Harry too as
though Mr. Weasley was hovering somewhere between life and death.
Still exceptionally pale, Ron stared at the back of his mothers letter as
though it might speak words of comfort to him. Fred pulled the
parchment out of Georges hands and read it for himself, then looked
up at Harry, who felt his hand shaking on his butterbeer bottle again
and clenched it more tightly to stop the trembling.
If Harry had ever sat through a longer night than this one he could
not remember it. Sirius suggested once that they all go to bed, but
without any real conviction, and the Weasleys looks of disgust were
answer enough. They mostly sat in silence around the table, watching
the candle wick sinking lower and lower into liquid wax, now and
then raising bottles to their lips, speaking only to check the time, to


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
wonder aloud what was happening, and to reassure one another that
if there was bad news, they would know straightaway, for Mrs.
Weasley must long since have arrived at St. Mungos.
Fred fell into a doze, his head sagging sideways onto his shoulder.
Ginny was curled like a cat on her chair, but her eyes were open
Harry could see them reflecting the firelight. Ron was sitting with his
head in his hands, whether awake or asleep it was impossible to tell.
And he and Sirius looked at each other every so often, intruders upon
the family grief, waiting . . . waiting . . .
And then, at ten past five in the morning by Rons watch, the
kitchen door swung open and Mrs. Weasley entered the kitchen. She
was extremely pale, but when they all turned to look at her, Fred, Ron,
and Harry halfrising from their chairs, she gave a wan smile.
Hes going to be all right, she said, her voice weak with tiredness.
Hes sleeping. We can all go and see him later. Bills sitting with him
now, hes going to take the morning off work.
Fred fell back into his chair with his hands over his face. George
and Ginny got up, walked swiftly over to their mother, and hugged
her. Ron gave a very shaky laugh and downed the rest of his butterbeer
in one.
Breakfast! said Sirius loudly and joyfully, jumping to his feet.
Wheres that accursed houseelf? Kreacher! KREACHER!
But Kreacher did not answer the summons.
Oh, forget it, then, muttered Sirius, counting the people in front
of him. So its breakfast for  lets see  seven . . . Bacon and eggs,
I think, and some tea, and toast 
Harry hurried over to the stove to help. He did not want to intrude
upon the Weasleys happiness, and he dreaded the moment when
Mrs. Weasley would ask him to recount his vision. However, he had
barely taken plates from the dresser when Mrs. Weasley lifted them
out of his hands and pulled him into a hug.
I dont know what would have happened if it hadnt been for you,


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
Harry, she said in a muffled voice. They might not have found
Arthur for hours, and then it would have been too late, but thanks to
you hes alive and Dumbledores been able to think up a good cover
story for Arthur being where he was, youve no idea what trouble he
would have been in otherwise, look at poor Sturgis. . . .
Harry could hardly stand her gratitude, but fortunately she soon
released him to turn to Sirius and thank him for looking after her chil
dren through the night. Sirius said that he was very pleased to have
been able to help, and hoped they would all stay with him as long as
Mr. Weasley was in hospital.
Oh, Sirius, Im so grateful. . . . They think hell be there a little
while and it would be wonderful to be nearer . . . Of course, that
might mean were here for Christmas. . . .
The more the merrier! said Sirius with such obvious sincerity that
Mrs. Weasley beamed at him, threw on an apron, and began to help
with breakfast.
Sirius, Harry muttered, unable to stand it a moment longer.
Can I have a quick word? Er  now?
He walked into the dark pantry and Sirius followed. Without pre
amble Harry told his godfather every detail of the vision he had had,
including the fact that he himself had been the snake who had at
tacked Mr. Weasley.
When he paused for breath, Sirius said, Did you tell Dumbledore
this?
Yes, said Harry impatiently, but he didnt tell me what it meant.
Well, he doesnt tell me anything anymore. . . .
Im sure he would have told you if it was anything to worry
about, said Sirius steadily.
But thats not all, said Harry in a voice only a little above a whis
per. Sirius, I . . . I think Im going mad. . . . Back in Dumbledores
office, just before we took the Portkey . . . for a couple of seconds


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
there I thought I was a snake, I felt like one  my scar really hurt
when I was looking at Dumbledore  Sirius, I wanted to attack
him 
He could only see a sliver of Siriuss face the rest was in darkness.
It must have been the aftermath of the vision, thats all, said Sir
ius. You were still thinking of the dream or whatever it was and 
It wasnt that, said Harry, shaking his head. It was like some
thing rose up inside me, like theres a snake inside me 
You need to sleep, said Sirius firmly. Youre going to have break
fast and then go upstairs to bed, and then you can go and see Arthur
after lunch with the others. Youre in shock, Harry youre blaming
yourself for something you only witnessed, and its lucky you did wit
ness it or Arthur might have died. Just stop worrying. . . .
He clapped Harry on the shoulder and left the pantry, leaving
Harry standing alone in the dark.
Everyone but Harry spent the rest of the morning sleeping. He went
up to the bedroom he had shared with Ron over the summer, but while
Ron crawled into bed and was asleep within minutes, Harry sat fully
clothed, hunched against the cold metal bars of the bedstead, keeping
himself deliberately uncomfortable, determined not to fall into a doze,
terrified that he might become the serpent again in his sleep and awake
to find that he had attacked Ron, or else slithered through the house
after one of the others. . . .
When Ron woke up, Harry pretended to have enjoyed a refreshing
nap too. Their trunks arrived from Hogwarts while they were eating
lunch, so that they could dress as Muggles for the trip to St. Mungos.
Everybody except Harry was riotously happy and talkative as they
changed out of their robes into jeans and sweatshirts, and they greeted
Tonks and MadEye, who had turned up to escort them across Lon
don, gleefully laughing at the bowler hat MadEye was wearing at an


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
angle to conceal his magical eye and assuring him, truthfully, that
Tonks, whose hair was short and bright pink again, would attract far
less attention on the underground.
Tonks was very interested in Harrys vision of the attack on Mr.
Weasley, something he was not remotely interested in discussing.
There isnt any Seer blood in your family, is there? she inquired
curiously, as they sat side by side on a train rattling toward the heart
of the city.
No, said Harry, thinking of Professor Trelawney and feeling
insulted.
No, said Tonks musingly, no, I suppose its not really prophecy
youre doing, is it? I mean, youre not seeing the future, youre seeing
the present. . . . Its odd, isnt it? Useful, though . . .
Harry did not answer fortunately they got out at the next stop, a
station in the very heart of London, and in the bustle of leaving the
train he was able to allow Fred and George to get between himself and
Tonks, who was leading the way. They all followed her up the escala
tor, Moody clunking along at the back of the group, his bowler tilted
low and one gnarled hand stuck in between the buttons of his coat,
clutching his wand. Harry thought he sensed the concealed eye star
ing hard at him trying to deflect more questions about his dream he
asked MadEye where St. Mungos was hidden.
Not far from here, grunted Moody as they stepped out into the
wintry air on a broad storelined street packed with Christmas shop
pers. He pushed Harry a little ahead of him and stumped along just
behind Harry knew the eye was rolling in all directions under the
tilted hat. Wasnt easy to find a good location for a hospital. Nowhere
in Diagon Alley was big enough and we couldnt have it underground
like the Ministry  unhealthy. In the end they managed to get hold of
a building up here. Theory was sick wizards could come and go and
just blend in with the crowd. . . .


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
He seized Harrys shoulder to prevent them being separated by a
gaggle of shoppers plainly intent on nothing but making it into a
nearby shop full of electrical gadgets.
Here we go, said Moody a moment later.
They had arrived outside a large, oldfashioned, red brick depart
ment store called Purge and Dowse Ltd. The place had a shabby, mis
erable air the window displays consisted of a few chipped dummies
with their wigs askew, standing at random and modeling fashions at
least ten years out of date. Large signs on all the dusty doors read
closed for refurbishment. Harry distinctly heard a large woman
laden with plastic shopping bags say to her friend as they passed, Its
never open, that place. . . .
Right, said Tonks, beckoning them forward to a window display
ing nothing but a particularly ugly female dummy whose false eye
lashes were hanging off and who was modeling a green nylon pinafore
dress. Everybody ready?
They nodded, clustering around her Moody gave Harry another
shove between the shoulder blades to urge him forward and Tonks
leaned close to the glass, looking up at the very ugly dummy and said,
her breath steaming up the glass, Wotcher . . . Were here to see
Arthur Weasley.
For a split second, Harry thought how absurd it was for Tonks to ex
pect the dummy to hear her talking that quietly through a sheet of
glass, when there were buses rumbling along behind her and all the
racket of a street full of shoppers. Then he reminded himself that dum
mies could not hear anyway. Next second his mouth opened in shock
as the dummy gave a tiny nod, beckoned its jointed finger, and Tonks
had seized Ginny and Mrs. Weasley by the elbows, stepped right
through the glass and vanished.
Fred, George, and Ron stepped after them Harry glanced around
at the jostling crowd not one of them seemed to have a glance to spare


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
for window displays as ugly as Purge and Dowse Ltd.s, nor did any of
them seem to have noticed that six people had just melted into thin
air in front of them.
Cmon, growled Moody, giving Harry yet another poke in the
back and together they stepped forward through what felt like a sheet
of cool water, emerging quite warm and dry on the other side.
There was no sign of the ugly dummy or the space where she had
stood. They had arrived in what seemed to be a crowded reception
area where rows of witches and wizards sat upon rickety wooden
chairs, some looking perfectly normal and perusing outofdate copies
of Witch Weekly, others sporting gruesome disfigurements such as ele
phant trunks or extra hands sticking out of their chests. The room was
scarcely less quiet than the street outside, for many of the patients were
making very peculiar noises. A sweatyfaced witch in the center of the
front row, who was fanning herself vigorously with a copy of the Daily
Prophet, kept letting off a highpitched whistle as steam came pouring
out of her mouth, and a grubbylooking warlock in the corner clanged
like a bell every time he moved, and with each clang his head vibrated
horribly, so that he had to seize himself by the ears and hold it steady.
Witches and wizards in limegreen robes were walking up and
down the rows, asking questions and making notes on clipboards like
Umbridges. Harry noticed the emblem embroidered on their chests
a wand and bone, crossed.
Are they doctors? he asked Ron quietly.
Doctors? said Ron, looking startled. Those Muggle nutters that
cut people up? Nah, theyre Healers.
Over here! called Mrs. Weasley over the renewed clanging of the
warlock in the corner, and they followed her to the queue in front of a
plump blonde witch seated at a desk marked inquiries. The wall be
hind her was covered in notices and posters saying things like a clean
cauldron keeps potions from becoming poisons and antidotes
are antidonts unless approved by a qualified healer.


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
There was also a large portrait of a witch with long silver ringlets
that was labelled
DILYS DERWENT
st. mungos healer 
headmistress of hogwarts school of
witchcraft and wizardry, iii
Dilys was eyeing the Weasley party as though counting them when
Harry caught her eye she gave a tiny wink, walked sideways out of her
portrait, and vanished.
Meanwhile, at the front of the queue, a young wizard was perform
ing an odd onthespot jig and trying, in between yelps of pain, to
explain his predicament to the witch behind the desk.
Its these  ouch  shoes my brother gave me  ow  theyre
eating my  OUCH  feet  look at them, there must be some
kind of  AARGH  jinx on them and I cant  AAAAARGH 
get them off 
He hopped from one foot to the other as though dancing on hot
coals.
The shoes dont prevent you reading, do they? said the blonde
witch irritably, pointing at a large sign to the left of her desk. You
want Spell Damage, fourth floor. Just like it says on the floor guide.
Next!
The wizard hobbled and pranced sideways out of the way, the
Weasley party moved forward a few steps and Harry read the floor
guide
ARTIFACT ACCIDENTS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ground Floor
Cauldron explosion, wand backfiring, broom crashes, etc.
CREATUREINDUCED INJURIES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . First Floor
Bites, stings, burns, embedded spines, etc.


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
MAGICAL BUGS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Second Floor
Contagious maladies, e.g., dragon pox, vanishing sickness,
scrofungulus
POTION AND PLANT POISONING. . . . . . . . . . . . . Third Floor
Rashes, regurgitation, uncontrollable giggling, etc.
SPELL DAMAGE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Fourth Floor
Unliftable jinxes, hexes, and incorrectly applied charms, etc.
VISITORS TEAROOM AND HOSPITAL SHOP. . . . . Fifth Floor
If you are unsure where to go, incapable, of normal speech, or
unable to remember why you are here, our Welcome Witch will
be pleased to help.
A very old, stooped wizard with a hearing trumpet had shuffled to
the front of the queue now.
Im here to see Broderick Bode! he wheezed.
Ward fortynine, but Im afraid youre wasting your time, said the
witch dismissively Hes completely addled, you know, still thinks hes
a teapot. . . . Next!
A harassedlooking wizard was holding his small daughter tightly
by the ankle while she flapped around his head using the immensely
large, feathery wings that had sprouted right out the back of her
romper suit.
Fourth floor, said the witch in a bored voice, without asking, and
the man disappeared through the double doors beside the desk, hold
ing his daughter like an oddly shaped balloon. Next!
Mrs. Weasley moved forward to the desk.
Hello, she said. My husband, Arthur Weasley, was supposed to
be moved to a different ward this morning, could you tell us  ?
Arthur Weasley? said the witch, running her finger down a long


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
list in front of her. Yes, first floor, second door on the right, Dai
Llewellyn ward.
Thank you, said Mrs. Weasley. Come on, you lot.
They followed through the double doors and along the narrow cor
ridor beyond, which was lined with more portraits of famous Healers
and lit by crystal bubbles full of candles that floated up on the ceiling,
looking like giant soapsuds. More witches and wizards in limegreen
robes walked in and out of the doors they passed a foulsmelling yel
low gas wafted into the passageway as they passed one door, and every
now and then they heard distant wailing. They climbed a flight of
stairs and entered the CreatureInduced Injuries corridor, where the
second door on the right bore the words dangerous dai llewellyn
ward serious bites. Underneath this was a card in a brass holder on
which had been handwritten HealerinCharge Hippocrates Smeth
wyck, Trainee Healer Augustus Pye.
Well wait outside, Molly, Tonks said. Arthur wont want too
many visitors at once. . . . It ought to be just the family first.
MadEye growled his approval of this idea and set himself with his
back against the corridor wall, his magical eye spinning in all direc
tions. Harry drew back too, but Mrs. Weasley reached out a hand and
pushed him through the door, saying, Dont be silly, Harry, Arthur
wants to thank you. . . .
The ward was small and rather dingy as the only window was narrow
and set high in the wall facing the door. Most of the light came from
more shining crystal bubbles clustered in the middle of the ceiling. The
walls were of panelled oak and there was a portrait of a rather vicious
looking wizard on the wall, captioned urquhart rackharrow, 
, inventor of the entrailexpelling curse.
There were only three patients. Mr. Weasley was occupying the bed
at the far end of the ward beside the tiny window. Harry was pleased and
relieved to see that he was propped up on several pillows and reading the


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
Daily Prophet by the solitary ray of sunlight falling onto his bed. He
looked around as they walked toward him and, seeing whom it was,
beamed.
Hello! he called, throwing the Prophet aside. Bill just left, Molly,
had to get back to work, but he says hell drop in on you later. . . .
How are you, Arthur? asked Mrs. Weasley, bending down to kiss
his cheek and looking anxiously into his face. Youre still looking a bit
peaky. . . .
I feel absolutely fine, said Mr. Weasley brightly, holding out his
good arm to give Ginny a hug. If they could only take the bandages
off, Id be fit to go home.
Why cant they take them off, Dad? asked Fred.
Well, I start bleeding like mad every time they try, said Mr.
Weasley cheerfully, reaching across for his wand, which lay on his bed
side cabinet, and waving it so that six extra chairs appeared at his bed
side to seat them all. It seems there was some rather unusual kind of
poison in that snakes fangs that keeps wounds open. . . . Theyre sure
theyll find an antidote, though, they say theyve had much worse
cases than mine, and in the meantime I just have to keep taking a
BloodReplenishing Potion every hour. But that fellow over there, he
said, dropping his voice and nodding toward the bed opposite in
which a man lay looking green and sickly and staring at the ceiling.
Bitten by a werewolf, poor chap. No cure at all.
A werewolf? whispered Mrs. Weasley, looking alarmed. Is he
safe in a public ward? Shouldnt he be in a private room?
Its two weeks till full moon, Mr. Weasley reminded her quietly.
Theyve been talking to him this morning, the Healers, you know,
trying to persuade him hell be able to lead an almost normal life. I
said to him  didnt mention names, of course  but I said I knew a
werewolf personally, very nice man, who finds the condition quite
easy to manage. . . .
What did he say? asked George.


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
Said hed give me another bite if I didnt shut up, said Mr. Weasley
sadly. And that woman over there, he indicated the only other occu
pied bed, which was right beside the door, wont tell the Healers what
bit her, which makes us all think it must have been something she was
handling illegally. Whatever it was took a real chunk out of her leg,
very nasty smell when they take off the dressings.
So, you going to tell us what happened, Dad? asked Fred, pulling
his chair closer to the bed.
Well, you already know, dont you? said Mr. Weasley, with a sig
nificant smile at Harry. Its very simple  Id had a very long day,
dozed off, got sneaked up on, and bitten.
Is it in the Prophet, you being attacked? asked Fred, indicating the
newspaper Mr. Weasley had cast aside.
No, of course not, said Mr. Weasley, with a slightly bitter smile,
the Ministry wouldnt want everyone to know a dirty great serpent
got 
Arthur! said Mrs. Weasley warningly.
 got  er  me, Mr. Weasley said hastily, though Harry was
quite sure that was not what he had meant to say.
So where were you when it happened, Dad? asked George.
Thats my business, said Mr. Weasley, though with a small smile.
He snatched up the Daily Prophet, shook it open again and said, I
was just reading about Willy Widdershinss arrest when you arrived.
You know Willy turned out to be behind those regurgitating toilets
last summer? One of his jinxes backfired, the toilet exploded, and they
found him lying unconscious in the wreckage covered from head to
foot in 
When you say you were on duty,  Fred interrupted in a low
voice, what were you doing?
You heard your father, whispered Mrs. Weasley, we are not dis
cussing this here! Go on about Willy Widdershins, Arthur 
Well, dont ask me how, but he actually got off on the toilet


CHAPTER TWENTYTWO
charge, said Mr. Weasley grimly. I can only suppose gold changed
hands 
You were guarding it, werent you? said George quietly. The
weapon? The thing YouKnowWhos after?
George, be quiet! snapped Mrs. Weasley.
Anyway, said Mr. Weasley in a raised voice, this time Willys
been caught selling biting doorknobs to Muggles, and I dont think
hell be able to worm his way out of it because according to this arti
cle, two Muggles have lost fingers and are now in St. Mungos for
emergency bone regrowth and memory modification. Just think of it,
Muggles in St. Mungos! I wonder which ward theyre in?
And he looked eagerly around as though hoping to see a signpost.
Didnt you say YouKnowWhos got a snake, Harry? asked Fred,
looking at his father for a reaction. A massive one? You saw it the
night he returned, didnt you?
Thats enough, said Mrs. Weasley crossly. MadEye and Tonks
are outside, Arthur, they want to come and see you. And you lot can
wait outside, she added to her children and Harry. You can come
and say goodbye afterward. Go on. . . .
They trooped back into the corridor. MadEye and Tonks went in
and closed the door of the ward behind them. Fred raised his eyebrows.
Fine, he said coolly, rummaging in his pockets, be like that.
Dont tell us anything.
Looking for these? said George, holding out what looked like a
tangle of fleshcolored string.
You read my mind, said Fred, grinning. Lets see if St. Mungos
puts Imperturbable Charms on its ward doors, shall we?
He and George disentangled the string and separated five Extend
able Ears from each other. Fred and George handed them around.
Harry hesitated to take one.
Go on, Harry, take it! You saved Dads life, if anyones got the right
to eavesdrop on him its you. . . .


ST. MUNGOS HOSPITAL
FOR MAGICAL MALADIES
AND INJURIES
Grinning in spite of himself, Harry took the end of the string and
inserted it into his ear as the twins had done.
Okay, go! Fred whispered.
The fleshcolored strings wriggled like long skinny worms, then
snaked under the door. For a few seconds Harry could hear nothing,
then he heard Tonks whispering as clearly as though she were stand
ing right beside him.
. . . they searched the whole area but they couldnt find the snake
anywhere, it just seems to have vanished after it attacked you, Arthur.
. . . But YouKnowWho cant have expected a snake to get in, can
he?
I reckon he sent it as a lookout, growled Moody,  cause hes not
had any luck so far, has he? No, I reckon hes trying to get a clearer pic
ture of what hes facing and if Arthur hadnt been there the beast
wouldve had much more time to look around. So Potter says he saw
it all happen?
Yes, said Mrs. Weasley. She sounded rather uneasy. You know,
Dumbledore seems almost to have been waiting for Harry to see
something like this. . . .
Yeah, well, said Moody, theres something funny about the
Potter kid, we all know that.
Dumbledore seemed worried about Harry when I spoke to him
this morning, whispered Mrs. Weasley.
 Course hes worried, growled Moody. The boys seeing things
from inside YouKnowWhos snake. . . . Obviously, Potter doesnt re
alize what that means, but if YouKnowWhos possessing him 
Harry pulled the Extendable Ear out of his own, his heart ham
mering very fast and heat rushing up his face. He looked around at the
others. They were all staring at him, the strings still trailing from their
ears, looking suddenly fearful.


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y  T H R E E
CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
W
as this why Dumbledore would no longer meet Harrys
eyes? Did he expect to see Voldemort staring out of them,
afraid, perhaps, that their vivid green might turn suddenly to scarlet,
with catlike slits for pupils? Harry remembered how the snakelike face
of Voldemort had once forced itself out of the back of Professor Quir
rells head, and he ran his hand over the back of his own, wondering
what it would feel like if Voldemort burst out of his skull. . . .
He felt dirty, contaminated, as though he were carrying some
deadly germ, unworthy to sit on the underground train back from the
hospital with innocent, clean people whose minds and bodies were
free of the taint of Voldemort. . . . He had not merely seen the snake,
he had been the snake, he knew it now. . . .
And then a truly terrible thought occurred to him, a memory bob
bing to the surface of his mind, one that made his insides writhe and
squirm like serpents. . . .
Whats he after apart from followers?
Stuff he can only get by stealth . . . like a weapon. Something he didnt
have last time.


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
Im the weapon, Harry thought, and it was as though poison were
pumping through his veins, chilling him, bringing him out in a sweat
as he swayed with the train through the dark tunnel. Im the one Volde
morts trying to use, thats why theyve got guards around me everywhere I
go, its not for my protection, its for other peoples, only its not working,
they cant have someone on me all the time at Hogwarts. . . . I did attack
Mr. Weasley last night, it was me, Voldemort made me do it and he could
be inside me, listening to my thoughts right now. . . .
Are you all right, Harry, dear? whispered Mrs. Weasley, leaning
across Ginny to speak to him as the train rattled along through its
dark tunnel. You dont look very well. Are you feeling sick?
They were all watching him. He shook his head violently and
stared up at an advertisement for home insurance.
Harry, dear, are you sure youre all right? said Mrs. Weasley in a
worried voice, as they walked around the unkempt patch of grass in
the middle of Grimmauld Place. You look ever so pale. . . . Are you
sure you slept this morning? You go upstairs to bed right now, and
you can have a couple of hours sleep before dinner, all right?
He nodded here was a readymade excuse not to talk to any of the
others, which was precisely what he wanted, so when she opened the
front door he proceeded straight past the trolls leg umbrella stand and
up the stairs and hurried into his and Rons bedroom.
Here he began to pace up and down, past the two beds and Phineas
Nigelluss empty portrait, his brain teeming and seething with ques
tions and ever more dreadful ideas. . . .
How had he become a snake? Perhaps he was an Animagus. . . .
No, he couldnt be, he would know. . . . perhaps Voldemort was an
Animagus. . . . Yes, thought Harry, that would fit, he would turn into
a snake of course . . . and when hes possessing me, then we both trans
form. . . . That still doesnt explain how come I got to London and back
to my bed in the space of about five minutes, though. . . . But then
Voldemorts about the most powerful wizard in the world, apart from


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
Dumbledore, its probably no problem at all to him to transport people
like that. . . .
And then, with a terrible stab of panic he thought, but this is in
sane  if Voldemorts possessing me, Im giving him a clear view into the
headquarters of the Order of the Phoenix right now! Hell know whos in
the Order and where Sirius is . . . and Ive heard loads of stuff I shouldnt
have, everything Sirius told me the first night I was here. . . .
There was only one thing for it He would have to leave Grim
mauld Place straightaway. He would spend Christmas at Hogwarts
without the others, which would keep them safe over the holidays at
least. . . . But no, that wouldnt do, there were still plenty of people at
Hogwarts to maim and injure, what if it was Seamus, Dean, or Neville
next time? He stopped his pacing and stood staring at Phineas Nigel
luss empty frame. A leaden sensation was settling in the pit of his
stomach. He had no alternative He was going to have to return to
Privet Drive, cut himself off from other wizards entirely. . . .
Well, if he had to do it, he thought, there was no point hanging
around. Trying with all his might not to think how the Dursleys were
going to react when they found him on their doorstep six months ear
lier than they had expected, he strode over to his trunk, slammed the
lid shut and locked it, then glanced around automatically for Hedwig
before remembering that she was still at Hogwarts  well, her cage
would be one less thing to carry  he seized one end of his trunk and
had dragged it halfway toward the door when a sneaky voice said,
Running away, are we?
He looked around. Phineas Nigellus had appeared upon the canvas
of his portrait and was leaning against the frame, watching Harry with
an amused expression on his face.
Not running away, no, said Harry shortly, dragging his trunk a
few more feet across the room.
I thought, said Phineas Nigellus, stroking his pointed beard,
that to belong in Gryffindor House you were supposed to be brave?


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
It looks to me as though you would have been better off in my own
house. We Slytherins are brave, yes, but not stupid. For instance,
given the choice, we will always choose to save our own necks.
Its not my own neck Im saving, said Harry tersely, tugging the
trunk over a patch of particularly uneven, motheaten carpet right in
front of the door.
Oh I see, said Phineas Nigellus, still stroking his beard. This is
no cowardly flight  you are being noble.
Harry ignored him. His hand was on the doorknob when Phineas
Nigellus said lazily, I have a message for you from Albus Dumbledore.
Harry spun around.
What is it?
Stay where you are.
I havent moved! said Harry, his hand still upon the doorknob.
So whats the message?
I have just given it to you, dolt, said Phineas Nigellus smoothly.
Dumbledore says,  Stay where you are. 
Why? said Harry eagerly, dropping the end of his trunk. Why
does he want me to stay? What else did he say?
Nothing whatsoever, said Phineas Nigellus, raising a thin black
eyebrow as though he found Harry impertinent.
Harrys temper rose to the surface like a snake rearing from long
grass. He was exhausted, he was confused beyond measure, he had ex
perienced terror, relief, and then terror again in the last twelve hours,
and still Dumbledore did not want to talk to him!
So thats it, is it? he said loudly. Stay there? Thats all anyone
could tell me after I got attacked by those dementors too! Just stay put
while the grownups sort it out, Harry! We wont bother telling you
anything, though, because your tiny little brain might not be able to
cope with it!
You know, said Phineas Nigellus, even more loudly than Harry,
this is precisely why I loathed being a teacher! Young people are so


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
infernally convinced that they are absolutely right about everything.
Has it not occurred to you, my poor puffedup popinjay, that there
might be an excellent reason why the headmaster of Hogwarts is not
confiding every tiny detail of his plans to you? Have you never paused,
while feeling harddoneby, to note that following Dumbledores or
ders has never yet led you into harm? No. No, like all young people,
you are quite sure that you alone feel and think, you alone recognize
danger, you alone are the only one clever enough to realize what the
Dark Lord may be planning. . . .
He is planning something to do with me, then? said Harry
swiftly.
Did I say that? said Phineas Nigellus, idly examining his silk
gloves. Now, if you will excuse me, I have better things to do than to
listen to adolescent agonizing. . . . Good day to you. . . .
And he strolled into his frame and out of sight.
Fine, go then! Harry bellowed at the empty frame. And tell
Dumbledore thanks for nothing!
The empty canvas remained silent. Fuming, Harry dragged his
trunk back to the foot of his bed, then threw himself facedown upon
the motheaten covers, his eyes shut, his body heavy and aching. . . .
He felt he had journeyed miles and miles. . . . It seemed impossible
that less than twentyfour hours ago Cho Chang had been approach
ing him under the mistletoe. . . . He was so tired. . . . He was scared to
sleep . . . yet he did not know how long he could fight it. . . . Dum
bledore had told him to stay. . . . That must mean he was allowed to
sleep. . . . But he was scared. . . . What if it happened again . . . ?
He was sinking into shadows. . . .
It was as though a film in his head had been waiting to start. He
was walking down a deserted corridor toward a plain black door, past
rough stone walls, torches, and an open doorway onto a flight of stone
steps leading downstairs on the left. . . .
He reached the black door but could not open it. . . . He stood gaz


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
ing at it, desperate for entry. . . . Something he wanted with all his heart
lay beyond. . . . A prize beyond his dreams. . . . If only his scar would
stop prickling . . . then he would be able to think more clearly. . . .
Harry, said Rons voice, from far, far away, Mum says dinners
ready, but shell save you something if you want to stay in bed. . . .
Harry opened his eyes, but Ron had already left the room.
He doesnt want to be on his own with me, Harry thought. Not after
what he heard Moody say . . .
He supposed none of them would want him there anymore now
that they knew what was inside him. . . .
He would not go down to dinner he would not inflict his company
upon them. He turned over onto his other side and after a while
dropped back off to sleep, waking much later in the early hours of the
morning, with his insides aching with hunger, and Ron snoring in the
next bed. Squinting around the room he saw the dark outline of
Phineas Nigellus standing again in his portrait and it occurred to
Harry that Dumbledore had probably set Phineas Nigellus to watch
over him, in case he attacked somebody else.
The feeling of being unclean intensified. He half wished he had not
obeyed Dumbledore and stayed. . . . If this was how life was going to
be in Grimmauld Place from now on, maybe he would be better off in
Privet Drive after all.
Everybody else spent the following morning putting up Christmas
decorations. Harry could not remember Sirius ever being in such a
good mood he was actually singing carols, apparently delighted that
he was to have company over Christmas. Harry could hear his voice
echoing up through the floor in the cold and empty drawing room
where he was sitting alone, watching the sky outside the windows
growing whiter, threatening snow, all the time feeling a savage plea
sure that he was giving the others the opportunity to keep talking
about him, as they were bound to be doing. When he heard Mrs.


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
Weasley calling his name softly up the stairs around lunchtime he re
treated farther upstairs and ignored her.
It was around six oclock in the evening that the doorbell rang and
Mrs. Black started screaming again. Assuming that Mundungus or
some other Order member had come to call, Harry merely settled
himself more comfortably against the wall of Buckbeak the hip
pogriffs room where he was hiding, trying to ignore how hungry he
felt as he fed Buckbeak dead rats. It came as a slight shock when some
body hammered hard on the door a few minutes later.
I know youre in there, said Hermiones voice. Will you please
come out? I want to talk to you.
What are you doing here? Harry asked her, pulling open the door,
as Buckbeak resumed his scratching at the strawstrewn floor for any
fragments of rat he might have dropped. I thought you were skiing
with your mum and dad.
Well, to tell the truth, skiings not really my thing, said Hermi
one. So Ive come for Christmas. There was snow in her hair and her
face was pink with cold. But dont tell Ron that, I told him its really
good because he kept laughing so much. Anyway, Mum and Dad are
a bit disappointed, but Ive told them that everyone whos serious
about the exams is staying at Hogwarts to study. They want me to do
well, theyll understand. Anyway, she said briskly, lets go to your
bedroom, Rons mums lit a fire in there and shes sent up sandwiches.
Harry followed her back to the second floor. When he entered the
bedroom he was rather surprised to see both Ron and Ginny waiting
for them, sitting on Rons bed.
I came on the Knight Bus, said Hermione airily, pulling off her
jacket before Harry had time to speak. Dumbledore told me what
had happened first thing this morning, but I had to wait for term to
end officially before setting off. Umbridge is already livid that you lot
disappeared right under her nose, even though Dumbledore told her


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
Mr. Weasley was in St. Mungos, and hed given you all permission to
visit. So . . .
She sat down next to Ginny, and the two girls and Ron looked up
at Harry.
Howre you feeling? asked Hermione.
Fine, said Harry stiffly.
Oh, dont lie, Harry, she said impatiently. Ron and Ginny say
youve been hiding from everyone since you got back from St.
Mungos.
They do, do they? said Harry, glaring at Ron and Ginny. Ron
looked down at his feet but Ginny seemed quite unabashed.
Well, you have! she said. And you wont look at any of us!
Its you lot who wont look at me! said Harry angrily.
Maybe youre taking it in turns to look and keep missing each
other, suggested Hermione, the corners of her mouth twitching.
Very funny, snapped Harry, turning away.
Oh, stop feeling all misunderstood, said Hermione sharply.
Look, the others have told me what you overheard last night on the
Extendable Ears 
Yeah? growled Harry, his hands deep in his pockets as he watched
the snow now falling thickly outside. All been talking about me, have
you? Well, Im getting used to it. . . .
We wanted to talk to you, Harry, said Ginny, but as youve been
hiding ever since we got back 
I didnt want anyone to talk to me, said Harry, who was feeling
more and more nettled.
Well, that was a bit stupid of you, said Ginny angrily, seeing as
you dont know anyone but me whos been possessed by YouKnow
Who, and I can tell you how it feels.
Harry remained quite still as the impact of these words hit him.
Then he turned on the spot to face her.


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
I forgot, he said.
Lucky you, said Ginny coolly.
Im sorry, Harry said, and he meant it. So . . . so do you think
Im being possessed, then?
Well, can you remember everything youve been doing? Ginny
asked. Are there big blank periods where you dont know what youve
been up to?
Harry racked his brains.
No, he said.
Then YouKnowWho hasnt ever possessed you, said Ginny sim
ply. When he did it to me, I couldnt remember what Id been doing
for hours at a time. Id find myself somewhere and not know how I
got there.
Harry hardly dared believe her, yet his heart was lightening almost
in spite of himself.
That dream I had about your dad and the snake, though 
Harry, youve had these dreams before, Hermione said. You had
flashes of what Voldemort was up to last year.
This was different, said Harry, shaking his head. I was inside
that snake. It was like I was the snake. . . . What if Voldemort some
how transported me to London  ?
One day, said Hermione, sounding thoroughly exasperated,
youll read Hogwarts, A History, and perhaps that will remind you
that you cant Apparate or Disapparate inside Hogwarts. Even Volde
mort couldnt just make you fly out of your dormitory, Harry.
You didnt leave your bed, mate, said Ron. I saw you thrashing
around in your sleep about a minute before we could wake you up. . . .
Harry started pacing up and down the room again, thinking. What
they were all saying was not only comforting, it made sense. . . .
Without really thinking he took a sandwich from the plate on the bed
and crammed it hungrily into his mouth. . . .
Im not the weapon after all, thought Harry. His heart swelled with


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
happiness and relief, and he felt like joining in as they heard Sirius
tramping past their door toward Buckbeaks room, singing God Rest
Ye Merry, Hippogriffs at the top of his voice.
How could he have dreamed of returning to Privet Drive for Christ
mas? Siriuss delight at having the house full again, and especially at
having Harry back, was infectious. He was no longer their sullen host
of the summer now he seemed determined that everyone should en
joy themselves as much, if not more, than they would have done at
Hogwarts, and he worked tirelessly in the runup to Christmas Day,
cleaning and decorating with their help, so that by the time they all
went to bed on Christmas Eve the house was barely recognizable. The
tarnished chandeliers were no longer hung with cobwebs but with
garlands of holly and gold and silver streamers magical snow glittered
in heaps over the threadbare carpets a great Christmas tree, obtained
by Mundungus and decorated with live fairies, blocked Siriuss family
tree from view and even the stuffed elf heads on the hall wall wore Fa
ther Christmas hats and beards.
Harry awoke on Christmas morning to find a stack of presents at
the foot of his bed and Ron already halfway through opening his own,
rather larger, pile.
Good haul this year, he informed Harry through a cloud of pa
per. Thanks for the Broom Compass, its excellent, beats Hermi
ones  shes got me a homework planner 
Harry sorted through his presents and found one with Hermiones
handwriting on it. She had given him too a book that resembled a di
ary, except that it said things like Do it today or later youll pay! every
time he opened a page.
Sirius and Lupin had given Harry a set of excellent books entitled
Practical Defensive Magic and Its Use Against the Dark Arts, which had
superb, moving color illustrations of all the counterjinxes and hexes it
described. Harry flicked through the first volume eagerly he could see


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
it was going to be highly useful in his plans for the D.A. Hagrid had
sent a furry brown wallet that had fangs, which were presumably sup
posed to be an antitheft device, but unfortunately prevented Harry
putting any money in without getting his fingers ripped off. Tonkss
present was a small, working model of a Firebolt, which Harry
watched fly around the room, wishing he still had his fullsize version
Ron had given him an enormous box of EveryFlavor Beans Mr. and
Mrs. Weasley the usual handknitted jumper and some mince pies
and Dobby, a truly dreadful painting that Harry suspected had been
done by the elf himself. He had just turned it upside down to see
whether it looked better that way when, with a loud crack, Fred and
George Apparated at the foot of his bed.
Merry Christmas, said George. Dont go downstairs for a bit.
Why not? said Ron.
Mums crying again, said Fred heavily. Percy sent back his
Christmas jumper.
Without a note, added George. Hasnt asked how Dad is or vis
ited him or anything. . . .
We tried to comfort her, said Fred, moving around the bed to
look at Harrys portrait. Told her Percys nothing more than a hu
mongous pile of rat droppings 
 didnt work, said George, helping himself to a Chocolate
Frog. So Lupin took over. Best let him cheer her up before we go
down for breakfast, I reckon.
Whats that supposed to be anyway? asked Fred, squinting at
Dobbys painting. Looks like a gibbon with two black eyes.
Its Harry! said George, pointing at the back of the picture. Says
so on the back!
Good likeness, said Fred, grinning. Harry threw his new home
work diary at him it hit the wall opposite and fell to the floor where it
said happily, If youve dotted the is and crossed the ts then you may do
whatever you please!


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
They got up and dressed they could hear various inhabitants of the
house calling Merry Christmas to each other. On their way down
stairs they met Hermione. Thanks for the book, Harry! she said
happily. Ive been wanting that New Theory of Numerology for ages!
And that perfume is really unusual, Ron.
No problem, said Ron. Whos that for anyway? he added, nod
ding at the neatly wrapped present she was carrying.
Kreacher, said Hermione brightly.
It had better not be clothes! said Ron warningly. You know what
Sirius said, Kreacher knows too much, we cant set him free!
It isnt clothes, said Hermione, although if I had my way Id cer
tainly give him something to wear other than that filthy old rag. No,
its a patchwork quilt, I thought it would brighten up his bedroom.
What bedroom? said Harry, dropping his voice to a whisper as
they were passing the portrait of Siriuss mother.
Well, Sirius says its not so much a bedroom, more a kind of 
den, said Hermione. Apparently he sleeps under the boiler in that
cupboard off the kitchen.
Mrs. Weasley was the only person in the basement when they ar
rived there. She was standing at the stove and sounded as though she
had a bad head cold when she wished them Merry Christmas, and
they all averted their eyes.
So, this is Kreachers bedroom? said Ron, strolling over to a dingy
door in the corner opposite the pantry which Harry had never seen
open.
Yes, said Hermione, now sounding a little nervous. Er . . . I
think wed better knock . . .
Ron rapped the door with his knuckles but there was no reply.
He must be sneaking around upstairs, he said, and without fur
ther ado pulled open the door. Urgh.
Harry peered inside. Most of the cupboard was taken up with a
very large and oldfashioned boiler, but in the foots space underneath


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
the pipes Kreacher had made himself something that looked like a
nest. A jumble of assorted rags and smelly old blankets were piled on
the floor and the small dent in the middle of it showed where
Kreacher curled up to sleep every night. Here and there among the
material were stale bread crusts and moldy old bits of cheese. In a far
corner glinted small objects and coins that Harry guessed Kreacher
had saved, magpielike, from Siriuss purge of the house, and he had
also managed to retrieve the silverframed family photographs that
Sirius had thrown away over the summer. Their glass might be shat
tered, but still the little blackandwhite people inside them peered
haughtily up at him, including  he felt a little jolt in his stomach 
the dark, heavylidded woman whose trial he had witnessed in Dum
bledores Pensieve Bellatrix Lestrange. By the looks of it, hers was
Kreachers favorite photograph he had placed it to the fore of all the
others and had mended the glass clumsily with Spellotape.
I think Ill just leave his present here, said Hermione, laying the
package neatly in the middle of the depression in the rags and blankets
and closing the door quietly. Hell find it later, thatll be fine. . . .
Come to think of it, said Sirius, emerging from the pantry carry
ing a large turkey as they closed the cupboard door, has anyone
actually seen Kreacher lately?
I havent seen him since the night we came back here, said Harry.
You were ordering him out of the kitchen.
Yeah . . . said Sirius, frowning. You know, I think thats the last
time I saw him, too. . . . He must be hiding upstairs somewhere. . . .
He couldnt have left, could he? said Harry. I mean, when you
said out, maybe he thought you meant, get out of the house?
No, no, houseelves cant leave unless theyre given clothes, theyre
tied to their familys house, said Sirius.
They can leave the house if they really want to, Harry contra
dicted him. Dobby did, he left the Malfoys to give me warnings two
years ago. He had to punish himself afterward, but he still managed it.


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
Sirius looked slightly disconcerted for a moment, then said, Ill
look for him later, I expect Ill find him upstairs crying his eyes out
over my mothers old bloomers or something. . . . Of course, he might
have crawled into the airing cupboard and died. . . . But I mustnt get
my hopes up. . . .
Fred, George, and Ron laughed Hermione, however, looked
reproachful.
Once they had had their Christmas lunch, the Weasleys and Harry
and Hermione were planning to pay Mr. Weasley another visit, es
corted by MadEye and Lupin. Mundungus turned up in time for
Christmas pudding and trifle, having managed to borrow a car for
the occasion, as the Underground did not run on Christmas Day. The
car, which Harry doubted very much had been taken with the knowl
edge or consent of its owner, had had a similar Enlarging Spell put
upon it as the Weasleys old Ford Anglia although normally propor
tioned outside, ten people with Mundungus driving were able to fit
into it quite comfortably. Mrs. Weasley hesitated at the point of get
ting inside Harry knew that her disapproval of Mundungus was bat
tling with her dislike of traveling without magic finally the cold
outside and her childrens pleading triumphed, and she settled herself
into the backseat between Fred and Bill with good grace.
The journey to St. Mungos was quite quick, as there was very little
traffic on the roads. A small trickle of witches and wizards were creep
ing furtively up the otherwise deserted street to visit the hospital.
Harry and the others got out of the car, and Mundungus drove off
around the corner to wait for them they strolled casually toward the
window where the dummy in green nylon stood, then, one by one,
stepped through the glass.
The reception area looked pleasantly festive The crystal orbs that
illuminated St. Mungos had been turned to red and gold so that they
became gigantic, glowing Christmas baubles holly hung around every
doorway, and shining white Christmas trees covered in magical snow


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
and icicles glittered in every corner, each topped with a gleaming gold
star. It was less crowded than the last time they had been there, al
though halfway across the room Harry found himself shunted aside
by a witch with a walnut jammed up her left nostril.
Family argument, eh? smirked the blonde witch behind the desk.
Youre the third Ive seen today . . . Spell Damage, fourth floor . . .
They found Mr. Weasley propped up in bed with the remains of his
turkey dinner on a tray in his lap and a rather sheepish expression on
his face.
Everything all right, Arthur? asked Mrs. Weasley, after they had
all greeted Mr. Weasley and handed over their presents.
Fine, fine, said Mr. Weasley, a little too heartily. You  er 
havent seen Healer Smethwyck, have you?
No, said Mrs. Weasley suspiciously, why?
Nothing, nothing, said Mr. Weasley airily, starting to unwrap his
pile of gifts. Well, everyone had a good day? What did you all get for
Christmas? Oh, Harry  this is absolutely wonderful 
For he had just opened Harrys gift of fusewire and screwdrivers.
Mrs. Weasley did not seem entirely satisfied with Mr. Weasleys an
swer. As her husband leaned over to shake Harrys hand, she peered at
the bandaging under his nightshirt.
Arthur, she said, with a snap in her voice like a mousetrap,
youve had your bandages changed. Why have you had your ban
dages changed a day early, Arthur? They told me they wouldnt need
doing until tomorrow.
What? said Mr. Weasley, looking rather frightened and pulling the
bed covers higher up his chest. No, no  its nothing  its  I 
He seemed to deflate under Mrs. Weasleys piercing gaze.
Well  now dont get upset, Molly, but Augustus Pye had an
idea. . . . Hes the Trainee Healer, you know, lovely young chap and
very interested in . . . um . . . complementary medicine. . . . I mean,


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
some of these old Muggle remedies . . . well, theyre called stitches,
Molly, and they work very well on  on Muggle wounds 
Mrs. Weasley let out an ominous noise somewhere between a
shriek and a snarl. Lupin strolled away from the bed and over to the
werewolf, who had no visitors and was looking rather wistfully at the
crowd around Mr. Weasley Bill muttered something about getting
himself a cup of tea and Fred and George leapt up to accompany him,
grinning.
Do you mean to tell me, said Mrs. Weasley, her voice growing
louder with every word and apparently unaware that her fellow visi
tors were scurrying for cover, that you have been messing about with
Muggle remedies?
Not messing about, Molly, dear, said Mr. Weasley imploringly.
It was just  just something Pye and I thought wed try  only,
most unfortunately  well, with these particular kinds of wounds 
it doesnt seem to work as well as wed hoped 
Meaning?
Well . . . well, I dont know whether you know what  what
stitches are?
It sounds as though youve been trying to sew your skin back to
gether, said Mrs. Weasley with a snort of mirthless laughter, but
even you, Arthur, wouldnt be that stupid 
I fancy a cup of tea too, said Harry, jumping to his feet.
Hermione, Ron, and Ginny almost sprinted to the door with him.
As it swung closed behind them, they heard Mrs. Weasley shriek,
WHAT DO YOU MEAN, THATS THE GENERAL IDEA?
Typical Dad, said Ginny, shaking her head as they set off up the
corridor. Stitches . . . I ask you . . .
Well, you know, they do work well on nonmagical wounds, said
Hermione fairly. I suppose something in that snakes venom dissolves
them or something. . . . I wonder where the tearoom is?


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
Fifth floor, said Harry, remembering the sign over the Welcome
Witchs desk.
They walked along the corridor through a set of double doors and
found a rickety staircase lined with more portraits of brutallooking
Healers. As they climbed it, the various Healers called out to them, di
agnosing odd complaints and suggesting horrible remedies. Ron was
seriously affronted when a medieval wizard called out that he clearly
had a bad case of spattergroit.
And whats that supposed to be? he asked angrily, as the Healer
pursued him through six more portraits, shoving the occupants out of
the way.
 Tis a most grievous affliction of the skin, young master, that will
leave you pockmarked and more gruesome even than you are now 
Watch who youre calling gruesome! said Ron, his ears turning red.
The only remedy is to take the liver of a toad, bind it tight about
your throat, stand naked by the full moon in a barrel of eels eyes 
I have not got spattergroit!
But the unsightly blemishes upon your visage, young master 
Theyre freckles! said Ron furiously. Now get back in your own
picture and leave me alone!
He rounded on the others, who were all keeping determinedly
straight faces.
What floors this?
I think its the fifth, said Hermione.
Nah, its the fourth, said Harry, one more 
But as he stepped onto the landing he came to an abrupt halt, star
ing at the small window set into the double doors that marked the
start of a corridor signposted spell damage. A man was peering out
at them all with his nose pressed against the glass. He had wavy blond
hair, bright blue eyes, and a broad vacant smile that revealed daz
zlingly white teeth.


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
Blimey! said Ron, also staring at the man.
Oh my goodness, said Hermione suddenly, sounding breathless.
Professor Lockhart!
Their exDefense Against the Dark Arts teacher pushed open the
doors and moved toward them, wearing a long lilac dressing gown.
Well, hello there! he said. I expect youd like my autograph,
would you?
Hasnt changed much, has he? Harry muttered to Ginny, who
grinned.
Er  how are you, Professor? said Ron, sounding slightly guilty.
It had been Rons malfunctioning wand that had damaged Professor
Lockharts memory so badly that he had landed here in the first place,
though, as Lockhart had been attempting to permanently wipe Harry
and Rons memories at the time, Harrys sympathy was limited.
Im very well indeed, thank you! said Lockhart exuberantly,
pulling a rather battered peacockfeather quill from his pocket. Now,
how many autographs would you like? I can do joinedup writing
now, you know!
Er  we dont want any at the moment, thanks, said Ron, rais
ing his eyebrows at Harry, who asked, Professor, should you be wan
dering around the corridors? Shouldnt you be in a ward?
The smile faded slowly from Lockharts face. For a few moments he
gazed intently at Harry, then he said, Havent we met?
Er . . . yeah, we have, said Harry. You used to teach us at Hog
warts, remember?
Teach? repeated Lockhart, looking faintly unsettled. Me? Did I?
And then the smile reappeared upon his face so suddenly it was
rather alarming. Taught you everything you know, I expect, did I?
Well, how about those autographs, then? Shall we say a round dozen,
you can give them to all your little friends then and nobody will be left
out!


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
But just then a head poked out of a door at the far end of the cor
ridor and a voice said, Gilderoy, you naughty boy, where have you
wandered off to?
A motherly looking Healer wearing a tinsel wreath in her hair came
bustling up the corridor, smiling warmly at Harry and the others.
Oh Gilderoy, youve got visitors! How lovely, and on Christmas
Day too! Do you know, he never gets visitors, poor lamb, and I cant
think why, hes such a sweetie, arent you?
Were doing autographs! Gilderoy told the Healer with another
glittering smile. They want loads of them, wont take no for an an
swer! I just hope weve got enough photographs!
Listen to him, said the Healer, taking Lockharts arm and beam
ing fondly at him as though he were a precocious twoyearold. He
was rather well known a few years ago we very much hope that this
liking for giving autographs is a sign that his memory might be com
ing back a little bit. Will you step this way? Hes in a closed ward, you
know, he must have slipped out while I was bringing in the Christmas
presents, the doors usually kept locked . . . not that hes dangerous!
But, she lowered her voice to a whisper, bit of a danger to himself,
bless him. . . . Doesnt know who he is, you see, wanders off and cant
remember how to get back. . . . It is nice of you to have come to see
him 
Er, said Ron, gesturing uselessly at the floor above, actually,
we were just  er 
But the Healer was smiling expectantly at them, and Rons feeble
mutter of going to have a cup of tea trailed away into nothingness.
They looked at one another rather hopelessly and then followed Lock
hart and his Healer along the corridor.
Lets not stay long, Ron said quietly.
The Healer pointed her wand at the door of the Janus Thickey
ward and muttered Alohomora. The door swung open and she led


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
the way inside, keeping a firm grasp on Gilderoys arm until she had
settled him into an armchair beside his bed.
This is our longterm resident ward, she informed Harry, Ron,
Hermione, and Ginny in a low voice. For permanent spell damage,
you know. Of course, with intensive remedial potions and charms and
a bit of luck, we can produce some improvement. . . . Gilderoy does
seem to be getting back some sense of himself, and weve seen a real
improvement in Mr. Bode, he seems to be regaining the power of
speech very well, though he isnt speaking any language we recognize
yet. . . . Well, I must finish giving out the Christmas presents, Ill
leave you all to chat. . . .
Harry looked around this ward bore unmistakable signs of being a
permanent home to its residents. They had many more personal ef
fects around their beds than in Mr. Weasleys ward the wall around
Gilderoys headboard, for instance, was papered with pictures of him
self, all beaming toothily and waving at the new arrivals. He had au
tographed many of them to himself in disjointed, childish writing.
The moment he had been deposited in his chair by the Healer,
Gilderoy pulled a fresh stack of photographs toward him, seized a
quill, and started signing them all feverishly.
You can put them in envelopes, he said to Ginny, throwing the
signed pictures into her lap one by one as he finished them. I am not
forgotten, you know, no, I still receive a very great deal of fan mail.
. . . Gladys Gudgeon writes weekly. . . . I just wish I knew why. . . .
He paused, looking faintly puzzled, then beamed again and returned
to his signing with renewed vigor. I suspect it is simply my good
looks. . . .
A sallowskinned, mournfullooking wizard lay in the bed oppo
site, staring at the ceiling he was mumbling to himself and seemed
quite unaware of anything around him. Two beds along was a woman
whose entire head was covered in fur Harry remembered something


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
similar happening to Hermione during their second year, although
fortunately the damage, in her case, had not been permanent. At the
far end of the ward flowery curtains had been drawn around two beds
to give the occupants and their visitors some privacy.
Here you are, Agnes, said the Healer brightly to the furryfaced
woman, handing her a small pile of Christmas presents. See, not for
gotten, are you? And your sons sent an owl to say hes visiting tonight,
so thats nice, isnt it?
Agnes gave several loud barks.
And look, Broderick, youve been sent a potted plant and a lovely
calendar with a different fancy hippogriff for each month, theyll
brighten things up, wont they? said the Healer, bustling along to the
mumbling man, setting a rather ugly plant with long, swaying tenta
cles on the bedside cabinet and fixing the calendar to the wall with her
wand. And  oh, Mrs. Longbottom, are you leaving already?
Harrys head spun round. The curtains had been drawn back from
the two beds at the end of the ward and two visitors were walking
back down the aisle between the beds a formidablelooking old witch
wearing a long green dress, a motheaten fox fur, and a pointed hat
decorated with what was unmistakably a stuffed vulture and, trailing
behind her looking thoroughly depressed  Neville.
With a sudden rush of understanding, Harry realized who the
people in the end beds must be. He cast around wildly for some
means of distracting the others so that Neville could leave the ward
unnoticed and unquestioned, but Ron had looked up at the sound of
the name Longbottom too, and before Harry could stop him had
called, Neville!
Neville jumped and cowered as though a bullet had narrowly
missed him.
Its us, Neville! said Ron brightly, getting to his feet. Have you
seen? Lockharts here! Whove you been visiting?


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
Friends of yours, Neville, dear? said Nevilles grandmother gra
ciously, bearing down upon them all.
Neville looked as though he would rather be anywhere in the world
but here. A dull purple flush was creeping up his plump face and he
was not making eye contact with any of them.
Ah, yes, said his grandmother, looking closely at Harry and stick
ing out a shriveled, clawlike hand for him to shake. Yes, yes, I know
who you are, of course. Neville speaks most highly of you.
Er  thanks, said Harry, shaking hands. Neville did not look at
him, but stared at his own feet, the color deepening in his face all the
while.
And you two are clearly Weasleys, Mrs. Longbottom continued,
proffering her hand regally to Ron and Ginny in turn. Yes, I know
your parents  not well, of course  but fine people, fine people . . .
and you must be Hermione Granger?
Hermione looked rather startled that Mrs. Longbottom knew her
name, but shook hands all the same.
Yes, Nevilles told me all about you. Helped him out of a few
sticky spots, havent you? Hes a good boy, she said, casting a sternly
appraising look down her rather bony nose at Neville, but he hasnt
got his fathers talent, Im afraid to say. . . . And she jerked her head
in the direction of the two beds at the end of the ward, so that the
stuffed vulture on her hat trembled alarmingly.
What? said Ron, looking amazed Harry wanted to stamp on
Rons foot, but that sort of thing was much harder to bring off unno
ticed when you were wearing jeans rather than robes. Is that your
dad down the end, Neville?
Whats this? said Mrs. Longbottom sharply. Havent you told
your friends about your parents, Neville?
Neville took a deep breath, looked up at the ceiling, and shook
his head. Harry could not remember ever feeling sorrier for anyone,


CHAPTER TWENTYTHREE
but he could not think of any way of helping Neville out of the
situation.
Well, its nothing to be ashamed of! said Mrs. Longbottom an
grily. You should be proud, Neville, proud ! They didnt give their
health and their sanity so their only son would be ashamed of them,
you know!
Im not ashamed, said Neville very faintly, still looking anywhere
but at Harry and the others. Ron was now standing on tiptoe to look
over at the inhabitants of the two beds.
Well, youve got a funny way of showing it! said Mrs. Longbot
tom. My son and his wife, she said, turning haughtily to Harry,
Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, were tortured into insanity by You
KnowWhos followers.
Hermione and Ginny both clapped their hands over their mouths.
Ron stopped craning his neck to catch a glimpse of Nevilles parents
and looked mortified.
They were Aurors, you know, and very well respected within the
Wizarding community, Mrs. Longbottom went on. Highly gifted,
the pair of them. I  yes, Alice dear, what is it?
Nevilles mother had come edging down the ward in her nightdress.
She no longer had the plump, happylooking face Harry had seen in
Moodys old photograph of the original Order of the Phoenix. Her
face was thin and worn now, her eyes seemed overlarge, and her hair,
which had turned white, was wispy and deadlooking. She did not
seem to want to speak, or perhaps she was not able to, but she made
timid motions toward Neville, holding something in her outstretched
hand.
Again? said Mrs. Longbottom, sounding slightly weary. Very
well, Alice dear, very well  Neville, take it, whatever it is. . . .
But Neville had already stretched out his hand, into which his
mother dropped an empty Droobles Blowing Gum wrapper.
Very nice, dear, said Nevilles grandmother in a falsely cheery


CHRISTMAS ON THE
CLOSED WARD
voice, patting his mother on the shoulder. But Neville said quietly,
Thanks Mum.
His mother tottered away, back up the ward, humming to herself.
Neville looked around at the others, his expression defiant, as though
daring them to laugh, but Harry did not think hed ever found any
thing less funny in his life.
Well, wed better get back, sighed Mrs. Longbottom, drawing on
long green gloves. Very nice to have met you all. Neville, put that
wrapper in the bin, she must have given you enough of them to paper
your bedroom by now. . . .
But as they left, Harry was sure he saw Neville slip the wrapper into
his pocket.
The door closed behind them.
I never knew, said Hermione, who looked tearful.
Nor did I, said Ron rather hoarsely.
Nor me, whispered Ginny.
They all looked at Harry.
I did, he said glumly. Dumbledore told me but I promised I
wouldnt mention it . . . thats what Bellatrix Lestrange got sent to
Azkaban for, using the Cruciatus Curse on Nevilles parents until they
lost their minds.
Bellatrix Lestrange did that? whispered Hermione, horrified.
That woman Kreachers got a photo of in his den?
There was a long silence, broken by Lockharts angry voice. Look,
I didnt learn joinedup writing for nothing, you know!


C H A P T E R T W E N T y  F O U R
OCCLUMENCY
K
reacher, it transpired, had been lurking in the attic. Sirius said
he had found him up there, covered in dust, no doubt looking
for more relics of the Black family to hide in his cupboard. Though
Sirius seemed satisfied with this story, it made Harry uneasy. Kreacher
seemed to be in a better mood on his reappearance, his bitter mutter
ing had subsided somewhat, and he submitted to orders more docilely
than usual, though once or twice Harry caught the houseelf staring
avidly at him, always looking quickly away when he saw that Harry
had noticed.
Harry did not mention his vague suspicions to Sirius, whose cheer
fulness was evaporating fast now that Christmas was over. As the date
of their departure back to Hogwarts drew nearer, he became more and
more prone to what Mrs. Weasley called fits of the sullens, in which
he would become taciturn and grumpy, often withdrawing to Buck
beaks room for hours at a time. His gloom seeped through the house,
oozing under doorways like some noxious gas, so that all of them be
came infected by it.
Harry did not want to leave Sirius all alone again with only Kreacher


OCCLUMENCY
for company. In fact, for the first time in his life, he was not looking
forward to returning to Hogwarts. Going back to school would mean
placing himself once again under the tyranny of Dolores Umbridge,
who had no doubt managed to force through another dozen decrees in
their absence. Then there was no Quidditch to look forward to now
that he had been banned there was every likelihood that their burden
of homework would increase as the exams drew even nearer Dumble
dore remained as remote as ever in fact, if it had not been for the D.A.,
Harry felt he might have gone to Sirius and begged him to let him leave
Hogwarts and remain in Grimmauld Place.
Then, on the very last day of the holidays, something happened
that made Harry positively dread his return to school.
Harry dear, said Mrs. Weasley, poking her head into his and
Rons bedroom, where the pair of them were playing wizard chess
watched by Hermione, Ginny, and Crookshanks, could you come
down to the kitchen? Professor Snape would like a word with you.
Harry did not immediately register what she had said one of his
castles was engaged in a violent tussle with a pawn of Rons, and he
was egging it on enthusiastically.
Squash him  squash him, hes only a pawn, you idiot  sorry,
Mrs. Weasley, what did you say?
Professor Snape, dear. In the kitchen. Hed like a word.
Harrys mouth fell open in horror. He looked around at Ron,
Hermione, and Ginny, all of whom were gaping back at him. Crook
shanks, whom Hermione had been restraining with difficulty for the
past quarter of an hour, leapt gleefully upon the board and set the
pieces running for cover, squealing at the top of their voices.
Snape? said Harry blankly.
Professor Snape, dear, said Mrs. Weasley reprovingly. Now come
on, quickly, he says he cant stay long.
Whats he want with you? said Ron, looking unnerved as Mrs.
Weasley withdrew from the room.


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
You havent done anything, have you?
No! said Harry indignantly, racking his brains to think what he
could have done that would make Snape pursue him to Grimmauld
Place. Had his last piece of homework perhaps earned a T?
He pushed open the kitchen door a minute or two later to find Sir
ius and Snape both seated at the long kitchen table, glaring in oppo
site directions. The silence between them was heavy with mutual
dislike. A letter lay open on the table in front of Sirius.
Er, said Harry to announce his presence.
Snape looked around at him, his face framed between curtains of
greasy black hair.
Sit down, Potter.
You know, said Sirius loudly, leaning back on his rear chair legs
and speaking to the ceiling, I think Id prefer it if you didnt give or
ders here, Snape. Its my house, you see.
An ugly flush suffused Snapes pallid face. Harry sat down in a chair
beside Sirius, facing Snape across the table.
I was supposed to see you alone, Potter, said Snape, the familiar
sneer curling his mouth, but Black 
Im his godfather, said Sirius, louder than ever.
I am here on Dumbledores orders, said Snape, whose voice, by
contrast, was becoming more and more quietly waspish, but by all
means stay, Black, I know you like to feel . . . involved.
Whats that supposed to mean? said Sirius, letting his chair fall
back onto all four legs with a loud bang.
Merely that I am sure you must feel  ah  frustrated by the fact
that you can do nothing useful, Snape laid a delicate stress on the
word, for the Order.
It was Siriuss turn to flush. Snapes lip curled in triumph as he
turned to Harry.
The headmaster has sent me to tell you, Potter, that it is his wish
for you to study Occlumency this term.


OCCLUMENCY
Study what? said Harry blankly.
Snapes sneer became more pronounced.
Occlumency, Potter. The magical defense of the mind against ex
ternal penetration. An obscure branch of magic, but a highly useful
one.
Harrys heart began to pump very fast indeed. Defense against ex
ternal penetration? But he was not being possessed, they had all
agreed on that. . . .
Why do I have to study Occlu  thing? he blurted out.
Because the headmaster thinks it a good idea, said Snape
smoothly. You will receive private lessons once a week, but you will
not tell anybody what you are doing, least of all Dolores Umbridge.
You understand?
Yes, said Harry. Whos going to be teaching me?
Snape raised an eyebrow.
I am, he said.
Harry had the horrible sensation that his insides were melting. Ex
tra lessons with Snape  what on earth had he done to deserve this?
He looked quickly around at Sirius for support.
Why cant Dumbledore teach Harry? asked Sirius aggressively.
Why you?
I suppose because it is a headmasters privilege to delegate less en
joyable tasks, said Snape silkily. I assure you I did not beg for the
job. He got to his feet. I will expect you at six oclock on Monday
evening, Potter. My office. If anybody asks, you are taking Remedial
Potions. Nobody who has seen you in my classes could deny you need
them.
He turned to leave, his black traveling cloak billowing behind him.
Wait a moment, said Sirius, sitting up straighter in his chair.
Snape turned back to face them, sneering.
I am in rather a hurry, Black . . . unlike you, I do not have unlim
ited leisure time. . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
Ill get to the point, then, said Sirius, standing up. He was rather
taller than Snape who, Harry noticed, had balled his fist in the pocket
of his cloak over what Harry was sure was the handle of his wand. If
I hear youre using these Occlumency lessons to give Harry a hard
time, youll have me to answer to.
How touching, Snape sneered. But surely you have noticed that
Potter is very like his father?
Yes, I have, said Sirius proudly.
Well then, youll know hes so arrogant that criticism simply
bounces off him, Snape said sleekly.
Sirius pushed his chair roughly aside and strode around the table
toward Snape, pulling out his wand as he went Snape whipped out
his own. They were squaring up to each other, Sirius looking livid,
Snape calculating, his eyes darting from Siriuss wand tip to his face.
Sirius! said Harry loudly, but Sirius appeared not to hear him.
Ive warned you, Snivellus, said Sirius, his face barely a foot from
Snapes, I dont care if Dumbledore thinks youve reformed, I know
better 
Oh, but why dont you tell him so? whispered Snape. Or are you
afraid he might not take the advice of a man who has been hiding in
side his mothers house for six months very seriously?
Tell me, how is Lucius Malfoy these days? I expect hes delighted
his lapdogs working at Hogwarts, isnt he?
Speaking of dogs, said Snape softly, did you know that Lucius
Malfoy recognized you last time you risked a little jaunt outside?
Clever idea, Black, getting yourself seen on a safe station platform . . .
gave you a castiron excuse not to leave your hideyhole in future,
didnt it?
Sirius raised his wand.
NO! Harry yelled, vaulting over the table and trying to get in be
tween them, Sirius, dont 


OCCLUMENCY
Are you calling me a coward? roared Sirius, trying to push Harry
out of the way, but Harry would not budge.
Why, yes, I suppose I am, said Snape.
Harry  get  out  of  it! snarled Sirius, pushing him out
of the way with his free hand.
The kitchen door opened and the entire Weasley family, plus
Hermione, came inside, all looking very happy, with Mr. Weasley
walking proudly in their midst dressed in a pair of striped pajamas
covered by a mackintosh.
Cured! he announced brightly to the kitchen at large. Com
pletely cured!
He and all the other Weasleys froze on the threshold, gazing at the
scene in front of them, which was also suspended in midaction, both
Sirius and Snape looking toward the door with their wands pointing
into each others faces and Harry immobile between them, a hand
stretched out to each of them, trying to force them apart.
Merlins beard, said Mr. Weasley, the smile sliding off his face,
whats going on here?
Both Sirius and Snape lowered their wands. Harry looked from one
to the other. Each wore an expression of utmost contempt, yet the
unexpected entrance of so many witnesses seemed to have brought
them to their senses. Snape pocketed his wand and swept back across
the kitchen, passing the Weasleys without comment. At the door he
looked back.
Six oclock Monday evening, Potter.
He was gone. Sirius glared after him, his wand at his side.
But whats been going on? asked Mr. Weasley again.
Nothing, Arthur, said Sirius, who was breathing heavily as though
he had just run a long distance. Just a friendly little chat between two
old school friends. . . . With what looked like an enormous effort, he
smiled. So . . . youre cured? Thats great news, really great. . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
Yes, isnt it? said Mrs. Weasley, leading her husband forward into
a chair. Healer Smethwyck worked his magic in the end, found an
antidote to whatever that snakes got in its fangs, and Arthurs learned
his lesson about dabbling in Muggle medicine, havent you, dear? she
added, rather menacingly.
Yes, Molly dear, said Mr. Weasley meekly.
That nights meal should have been a cheerful one with Mr.
Weasley back amongst them Harry could tell Sirius was trying to
make it so, yet when his godfather was not forcing himself to laugh
loudly at Fred and Georges jokes or offering everyone more food, his
face fell back into a moody, brooding expression. Harry was separated
from him by Mundungus and MadEye, who had dropped in to offer
Mr. Weasley their congratulations he wanted to talk to Sirius, to tell
him that he should not listen to a word Snape said, that Snape was
goading him deliberately and that the rest of them did not think Sir
ius was a coward for doing as Dumbledore told him and remaining in
Grimmauld Place, but he had no opportunity to do so, and wondered
occasionally, eyeing the ugly look on Siriuss face, whether he would
have dared to even if he had the chance. Instead he told Ron and
Hermione under his voice about having to take Occlumency lessons
with Snape.
Dumbledore wants to stop you having those dreams about Volde
mort, said Hermione at once. Well, you wont be sorry not to have
them anymore, will you?
Extra lessons with Snape? said Ron, sounding aghast. Id rather
have the nightmares!
They were to return to Hogwarts on the Knight Bus the following
day, escorted once again by Tonks and Lupin, both of whom were eat
ing breakfast in the kitchen when Harry, Ron, and Hermione arrived
there next morning. The adults seemed to have been midway through
a whispered conversation when the door opened all of them looked
around hastily and fell silent.


OCCLUMENCY
After a hurried breakfast they pulled on jackets and scarves against
the chilly gray January morning. Harry had an unpleasant constricted
sensation in his chest he did not want to say goodbye to Sirius. He
had a bad feeling about this parting he did not know when they
would next see each other and felt that it was incumbent upon him to
say something to Sirius to stop him doing anything stupid  Harry
was worried that Snapes accusation of cowardice had stung Sirius so
badly he might even now be planning some foolhardy trip beyond
Grimmauld Place. Before he could think of what to say, however, Sir
ius had beckoned him to his side.
I want you to take this, he said quietly, thrusting a badly wrapped
package roughly the size of a paperback book into Harrys hands.
What is it? Harry asked.
A way of letting me know if Snapes giving you a hard time. No,
dont open it in here! said Sirius, with a wary look at Mrs. Weasley,
who was trying to persuade the twins to wear handknitted mittens. I
doubt Molly would approve  but I want you to use it if you need
me, all right?
Okay, said Harry, stowing the package away in the inside pocket
of his jacket, but he knew he would never use whatever it was. It
would not be he, Harry, who lured Sirius from his place of safety, no
matter how foully Snape treated him in their forthcoming Occlu
mency classes.
Lets go, then, said Sirius, clapping Harry on the shoulder and
smiling grimly, and before Harry could say anything else, they were
heading upstairs, stopping before the heavily chained and bolted front
door, surrounded by Weasleys.
Goodbye, Harry, take care, said Mrs. Weasley, hugging him.
See you Harry, and keep an eye out for snakes for me! said Mr.
Weasley genially, shaking his hand.
Right  yeah, said Harry distractedly. It was his last chance to
tell Sirius to be careful he turned, looked into his godfathers face and


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
opened his mouth to speak, but before he could do so Sirius was giv
ing him a brief, onearmed hug. He said gruffly, Look after yourself,
Harry, and next moment Harry found himself being shunted out
into the icy winter air, with Tonks today heavily disguised as a tall,
tweedy woman with irongray hair chivvying him down the steps.
The door of number twelve slammed shut behind them. They fol
lowed Lupin down the front steps. As he reached the pavement, Harry
looked around. Number twelve was shrinking rapidly as those on ei
ther side of it stretched sideways, squeezing it out of sight one blink
later, it had gone.
Come on, the quicker we get on the bus the better, said Tonks,
and Harry thought there was nervousness in the glance she threw
around the square. Lupin flung out his right arm.
BANG.
A violently purple, tripledecker bus had appeared out of thin air in
front of them, narrowly avoiding the nearest lamppost, which jumped
backward out of its way.
A thin, pimply, jugeared youth in a purple uniform leapt down
onto the pavement and said, Welcome to the 
Yes, yes, we know, thank you, said Tonks swiftly. On, on, get
on 
And she shoved Harry forward toward the steps, past the conduc
tor, who goggled at Harry as he passed.
 Ere  its Arry  !
If you shout his name I will curse you into oblivion, muttered
Tonks menacingly, now shunting Ginny and Hermione forward.
Ive always wanted to go on this thing, said Ron happily, joining
Harry on board and looking around.
It had been evening the last time Harry had traveled by Knight Bus
and its three decks had been full of brass bedsteads. Now, in the early
morning, it was crammed with an assortment of mismatched chairs


OCCLUMENCY
grouped haphazardly around windows. Some of these appeared to
have fallen over when the bus stopped abruptly in Grimmauld Place
a few witches and wizards were still getting to their feet, grumbling,
and somebodys shopping bag had slid the length of the bus an un
pleasant mixture of frog spawn, cockroaches, and custard creams was
scattered all over the floor.
Looks like well have to split up, said Tonics briskly, looking
around for empty chairs. Fred, George, and Ginny, if you just take
those seats at the back . . . Remus can stay with you. . . .
She, Harry, Ron, and Hermione proceeded up to the very top deck,
where there were two chairs at the very front of the bus and two at the
back. Stan Shunpike, the conductor, followed Harry and Ron eagerly
to the back. Heads turned as Harry passed and when he sat down, he
saw all the faces flick back to the front again.
As Harry and Ron handed Stan eleven Sickles each, the bus set off
again, swaying ominously. It rumbled around Grimmauld Square,
weaving on and off the pavement, then, with another tremendous
BANG, they were all flung backward Rons chair toppled right over
and Pigwidgeon, who had been on his lap, burst out of his cage and
flew twittering wildly up to the front of the bus where he fluttered
down upon Hermiones shoulder instead. Harry, who had narrowly
avoided falling by seizing a candle bracket, looked out of the window
they were now speeding down what appeared to be a motorway.
Just outside Birmingham, said Stan happily, answering Harrys
unasked question as Ron struggled up from the floor. You keepin
well, then, Arry? I seen your name in the paper loads over the summer,
but it werent never nuffink very nice. . . . I said to Ern, I said,  e didnt
seem like a nutter when we met im, just goes to show, dunnit? 
He handed over their tickets and continued to gaze, enthralled, at
Harry apparently Stan did not care how nutty somebody was if they
were famous enough to be in the paper. The Knight Bus swayed


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
alarmingly, overtaking a line of cars on the inside. Looking toward the
front of the bus Harry saw Hermione cover her eyes with her hands,
Pigwidgeon still swaying happily on her shoulder.
BANG.
Chairs slid backward again as the Knight Bus jumped from the
Birmingham motorway to a quiet country lane full of hairpin bends.
Hedgerows on either side of the road were leaping out of their way as
they mounted the verges. From here they moved to a main street in
the middle of a busy town, then to a viaduct surrounded by tall hills,
then to a windswept road between highrise flats, each time with a
loud BANG.
Ive changed my mind, muttered Ron, picking himself up from
the floor for the sixth time, I never want to ride on here again.
Listen, its Ogwarts stop after this, said Stan brightly, swaying to
ward them. That bossy woman up front oo got on with you, shes
given us a little tip to move you up the queue. Were just gonna let
Madam Marsh off first, though  There was more retching from
downstairs, followed by a horrible spattering sound. Shes not feeling
er best.
A few minutes later the Knight Bus screeched to a halt outside a
small pub, which squeezed itself out of the way to avoid a collision.
They could hear Stan ushering the unfortunate Madam Marsh out of
the bus and the relieved murmurings of her fellow passengers on the
second deck. The bus moved on again, gathering speed, until 
BANG.
They were rolling through a snowy Hogsmeade. Harry caught a
glimpse of the Hogs Head down its side street, the severed boars head
sign creaking in the wintry wind. Flecks of snow hit the large window
at the front of the bus. At last they rolled to a halt outside the gates to
Hogwarts.
Lupin and Tonks helped them off the bus with their luggage and
then got off to say goodbye. Harry glanced up at the three decks of


OCCLUMENCY
the Knight Bus and saw all the passengers staring down at them, noses
flat against the windows.
Youll be safe once youre in the grounds, said Tonks, casting a
careful eye around at the deserted road. Have a good term, okay?
Look after yourselves, said Lupin, shaking hands all round and
reaching Harry last. And listen . . . He lowered his voice while the
rest of them exchanged lastminute goodbyes with Tonks, Harry, I
know you dont like Snape, but he is a superb Occlumens and we
all  Sirius included  want you to learn to protect yourself, so
work hard, all right?
Yeah, all right, said Harry heavily, looking up into Lupins pre
maturely lined face. See you, then . . .
The six of them struggled up the slippery drive toward the castle
dragging their trunks. Hermione was already talking about knitting a
few elf hats before bedtime. Harry glanced back when they reached
the oak front doors the Knight Bus had already gone, and he half
wished, given what was coming the following day, that he was still on
board.
Harry spent most of the next day dreading the evening. His morning
Potions lesson did nothing to dispel his trepidation, as Snape was as
unpleasant as ever, and Harrys mood was further lowered by the fact
that members of the D.A. were continually approaching him in the
corridors between classes, asking hopefully whether there would be a
meeting that night.
Ill let you know when the next one is, Harry said over and over
again, but I cant do it tonight, Ive got to go to  er  Remedial
Potions. . . .
You take Remedial Potions? asked Zacharias Smith superciliously,
having cornered Harry in the entrance hall after lunch. Good Lord,
you must be terrible, Snape doesnt usually give extra lessons, does
he?


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
As Smith strode away in an annoyingly buoyant fashion, Ron
glared after him.
Shall I jinx him? I can still get him from here, he said, raising his
wand and taking aim between Smiths shoulder blades.
Forget it, said Harry dismally. Its what everyones going to
think, isnt it? That Im really stup 
Hi, Harry, said a voice behind him. He turned around and found
Cho standing there.
Oh, said Harry as his stomach leapt uncomfortably. Hi.
Well be in the library, Harry, said Hermione firmly, and she
seized Ron above the elbow and dragged him off toward the marble
staircase.
Had a good Christmas? asked Cho.
Yeah, not bad, said Harry.
Mine was pretty quiet, said Cho. For some reason, she was look
ing rather embarrassed. Erm . . . theres another Hogsmeade trip
next month, did you see the notice?
What? Oh no, I havent checked the notice board since I got
back. . . .
Yes, its on Valentines Day. . . .
Right, said Harry, wondering why she was telling him this.
Well, I suppose you want to  ?
Only if you do, she said eagerly.
Harry stared. He had been about to say I suppose you want to
know when the next D.A. meeting is? but her response did not seem
to fit.
I  er  he said.
Oh, its okay if you dont, she said, looking mortified. Dont
worry. IIll see you around.
She walked away. Harry stood staring after her, his brain working
frantically. Then something clunked into place.


OCCLUMENCY
Cho! Hey  CHO!
He ran after her, catching her halfway up the marble staircase.
Er  dyou want to come into Hogsmeade with me on Valen
tines Day?
Oooh, yes! she said, blushing crimson and beaming at him.
Right . . . well . . . thats settled then, said Harry, and feeling that
the day was not going to be a complete loss after all, he headed off to
the library to pick up Ron and Hermione before their afternoon
lessons, walking in a rather bouncy way himself.
By six oclock that evening, however, even the glow of having suc
cessfully asked out Cho Chang was insufficient to lighten the omi
nous feelings that intensified with every step Harry took toward
Snapes office.
He paused outside the door when he reached it, wishing he were al
most anywhere else, then, taking a deep breath, knocked, and entered.
It was a shadowy room lined with shelves bearing hundreds of glass
jars in which floated slimy bits of animals and plants, suspended in
variously colored potions. In a corner stood the cupboard full of in
gredients that Snape had once accused Harry  not without
reason  of robbing. Harrys attention was drawn toward the desk,
however, where a shallow stone basin engraved with runes and sym
bols lay in a pool of candlelight. Harry recognized it at once  Dum
bledores Pensieve. Wondering what on earth it was doing here, he
jumped when Snapes cold voice came out of the corner.
Shut the door behind you, Potter.
Harry did as he was told with the horrible feeling that he was im
prisoning himself as he did so. When he turned back to face the room
Snape had moved into the light and was pointing silently at the chair
opposite his desk. Harry sat down and so did Snape, his cold black
eyes fixed unblinkingly upon Harry, dislike etched in every line of his
face.


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
Well, Potter, you know why you are here, he said. The head
master has asked me to teach you Occlumency. I can only hope that
you prove more adept at it than Potions.
Right, said Harry tersely.
This may not be an ordinary class, Potter, said Snape, his eyes
narrowed malevolently, but I am still your teacher and you will there
fore call me sir or Professor at all times.
Yes . . . sir, said Harry.
Now, Occlumency. As I told you back in your dear godfathers
kitchen, this branch of magic seals the mind against magical intrusion
and influence.
And why does Professor Dumbledore think I need it, sir? said
Harry, looking directly into Snapes dark, cold eyes and wondering
whether he would answer.
Snape looked back at him for a moment and then said contemptu
ously, Surely even you could have worked that out by now, Potter?
The Dark Lord is highly skilled at Legilimency 
Whats that? Sir?
It is the ability to extract feelings and memories from another per
sons mind 
He can read minds? said Harry quickly, his worst fears confirmed.
You have no subtlety, Potter, said Snape, his dark eyes glittering.
You do not understand fine distinctions. It is one of the shortcom
ings that makes you such a lamentable potionmaker.
Snape paused for a moment, apparently to savor the pleasure of
insulting Harry, before continuing, Only Muggles talk of mind
reading. The mind is not a book, to be opened at will and examined
at leisure. Thoughts are not etched on the inside of skulls, to be
perused by any invader. The mind is a complex and manylayered
thing, Potter . . . or at least, most minds are. . . . He smirked. It is
true, however, that those who have mastered Legilimency are able, un


OCCLUMENCY
der certain conditions, to delve into the minds of their victims and to
interpret their findings correctly. The Dark Lord, for instance, almost
always knows when somebody is lying to him. Only those skilled at
Occlumency are able to shut down those feelings and memories that
contradict the lie, and so utter falsehoods in his presence without
detection.
Whatever Snape said, Legilimency sounded like mind reading to
Harry and he did not like the sound of it at all.
So he could know what were thinking right now? Sir?
The Dark Lord is at a considerable distance and the walls and
grounds of Hogwarts are guarded by many ancient spells and charms
to ensure the bodily and mental safety of those who dwell within
them, said Snape. Time and space matter in magic, Potter. Eye con
tact is often essential to Legilimency.
Well then, why do I have to learn Occlumency?
Snape eyed Harry, tracing his mouth with one long, thin finger as
he did so.
The usual rules do not seem to apply with you, Potter. The curse
that failed to kill you seems to have forged some kind of connection
between you and the Dark Lord. The evidence suggests that at times,
when your mind is most relaxed and vulnerable  when you are
asleep, for instance  you are sharing the Dark Lords thoughts and
emotions. The headmaster thinks it inadvisable for this to continue.
He wishes me to teach you how to close your mind to the Dark
Lord.
Harrys heart was pumping fast again. None of this added up.
But why does Professor Dumbledore want to stop it? he asked
abruptly. I dont like it much, but its been useful, hasnt it? I mean
. . . I saw that snake attack Mr. Weasley and if I hadnt, Professor
Dumbledore wouldnt have been able to save him, would he? Sir?
Snape stared at Harry for a few moments, still tracing his mouth


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
with his finger. When he spoke again, it was slowly and deliberately, as
though he weighed every word.
It appears that the Dark Lord has been unaware of the connection
between you and himself until very recently. Up till now it seems that
you have been experiencing his emotions and sharing his thoughts
without his being any the wiser. However, the vision you had shortly
before Christmas 
The one with the snake and Mr. Weasley?
Do not interrupt me, Potter, said Snape in a dangerous voice. As
I was saying . . . the vision you had shortly before Christmas repre
sented such a powerful incursion upon the Dark Lords thoughts 
I saw inside the snakes head, not his!
I thought I just told you not to interrupt me, Potter?
But Harry did not care if Snape was angry at last he seemed to be
getting to the bottom of this business. He had moved forward in his
chair so that, without realizing it, he was perched on the very edge,
tense as though poised for flight.
How come I saw through the snakes eyes if its Voldemorts
thoughts Im sharing?
Do not say the Dark Lords name! spat Snape.
There was a nasty silence. They glared at each other across the
Pensieve.
Professor Dumbledore says his name, said Harry quietly.
Dumbledore is an extremely powerful wizard, Snape muttered.
While he may feel secure enough to use the name . . . the rest of
us . . . He rubbed his left forearm, apparently unconsciously, on the
spot where Harry knew the Dark Mark was burned into his skin.
I just wanted to know, Harry began again, forcing his voice back
to politeness, why 
You seem to have visited the snakes mind because that was where
the Dark Lord was at that particular moment, snarled Snape. He


OCCLUMENCY
was possessing the snake at the time and so you dreamed you were in
side it too. . . .
And Vol  he  realized I was there?
It seems so, said Snape coolly.
How do you know? said Harry urgently. Is this just Professor
Dumbledore guessing, or  ?
I told you, said Snape, rigid in his chair, his eyes slits, to call me
sir. 
Yes, sir, said Harry impatiently, but how do you know  ?
It is enough that we know, said Snape repressively. The impor
tant point is that the Dark Lord is now aware that you are gaining
access to his thoughts and feelings. He has also deduced that the
process is likely to work in reverse that is to say, he has realized that
he might be able to access your thoughts and feelings in return 
And he might try and make me do things? asked Harry. Sir? he
added hurriedly.
He might, said Snape, sounding cold and unconcerned. Which
brings us back to Occlumency.
Snape pulled out his wand from an inside pocket of his robes and
Harry tensed in his chair, but Snape merely raised the wand to his
temple and placed its tip into the greasy roots of his hair. When he
withdrew it, some silvery substance came away, stretching from tem
ple to wand like a thick gossamer strand, which broke as he pulled the
wand away from it and fell gracefully into the Pensieve, where it
swirled silvery white, neither gas nor liquid. Twice more Snape
raised the wand to his temple and deposited the silvery substance
into the stone basin, then, without offering any explanation of his
behavior, he picked up the Pensieve carefully, removed it to a shelf
out of their way and returned to face Harry with his wand held at
the ready.
Stand up and take out your wand, Potter.


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
Harry got to his feet feeling nervous. They faced each other with
the desk between them.
You may use your wand to attempt to disarm me, or defend your
self in any other way you can think of, said Snape.
And what are you going to do? Harry asked, eyeing Snapes wand
apprehensively.
I am about to attempt to break into your mind, said Snape softly.
We are going to see how well you resist. I have been told that you
have already shown aptitude at resisting the Imperius Curse. . . . You
will find that similar powers are needed for this. . . . Brace yourself,
now. . . . Legilimens!
Snape had struck before Harry was ready, before Harry had even
begun to summon any force of resistance the office swam in front of
his eyes and vanished, image after image was racing through his mind
like a flickering film so vivid it blinded him to his surroundings. . . .
He was five, watching Dudley riding a new red bicycle, and his
heart was bursting with jealousy. . . . He was nine, and Ripper the
bulldog was chasing him up a tree and the Dursleys were laughing be
low on the lawn. . . . He was sitting under the Sorting Hat, and it was
telling him he would do well in Slytherin. . . . Hermione was lying in
the hospital wing, her face covered with thick black hair. . . . A hun
dred dementors were closing in on him beside the dark lake. . . . Cho
Chang was drawing nearer to him under the mistletoe. . . .
No, said a voice in Harrys head, as the memory of Cho drew nearer,
youre not watching that, youre not watching it, its private 
He felt a sharp pain in his knee. Snapes office had come back into
view and he realized that he had fallen to the floor one of his knees
had collided painfully with the leg of Snapes desk. He looked up at
Snape, who had lowered his wand and was rubbing his wrist. There
was an angry weal there, like a scorch mark.
Did you mean to produce a Stinging Hex? asked Snape coolly.
No, said Harry bitterly, getting up from the floor.


OCCLUMENCY
I thought not, said Snape contemptuously. You let me get in too
far. You lost control.
Did you see everything I saw? Harry asked, unsure whether he
wanted to hear the answer.
Flashes of it, said Snape, his lip curling. To whom did the dog
belong?
My Aunt Marge, Harry muttered, hating Snape.
Well, for a first attempt that was not as poor as it might have
been, said Snape, raising his wand once more. You managed to stop
me eventually, though you wasted time and energy shouting. You
must remain focused. Repel me with your brain and you will not need
to resort to your wand.
Im trying, said Harry angrily, but youre not telling me how!
Manners, Potter, said Snape dangerously. Now, I want you to
close your eyes.
Harry threw him a filthy look before doing as he was told. He did
not like the idea of standing there with his eyes shut while Snape faced
him, carrying a wand.
Clear your mind, Potter, said Snapes cold voice. Let go of all
emotion. . . .
But Harrys anger at Snape continued to pound through his veins
like venom. Let go of his anger? He could as easily detach his legs. . . .
Youre not doing it, Potter. . . . You will need more discipline than
this. . . . Focus, now. . . .
Harry tried to empty his mind, tried not to think, or remember, or
feel. . . .
Lets go again . . . on the count of three . . . one  two 
three  Legilimens!
A great black dragon was rearing in front of him. . . . His father
and mother were waving at him out of an enchanted mirror. . . .
Cedric Diggory was lying on the ground with blank eyes staring at
him. . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
NOOOOOOO!
He was on his knees again, his face buried in his hands, his brain
aching as though someone had been trying to pull it from his skull.
Get up! said Snape sharply. Get up! You are not trying, you are
making no effort, you are allowing me access to memories you fear,
handing me weapons!
Harry stood up again, his heart thumping wildly as though he had
really just seen Cedric dead in the graveyard. Snape looked paler than
usual, and angrier, though not nearly as angry as Harry was.
I  am  making  an  effort, he said through clenched
teeth.
I told you to empty yourself of emotion!
Yeah? Well, Im finding that hard at the moment, Harry snarled.
Then you will find yourself easy prey for the Dark Lord! said
Snape savagely. Fools who wear their hearts proudly on their sleeves,
who cannot control their emotions, who wallow in sad memories and
allow themselves to be provoked this easily  weak people, in other
words  they stand no chance against his powers! He will penetrate
your mind with absurd ease, Potter!
I am not weak, said Harry in a low voice, fury now pumping
through him so that he thought he might attack Snape in a moment.
Then prove it! Master yourself! spat Snape. Control your anger,
discipline your mind! We shall try again! Get ready, now! Legilimens!
He was watching Uncle Vernon hammering the letter box shut. . . .
A hundred dementors were drifting across the lake in the grounds to
ward him. . . . He was running along a windowless passage with Mr.
Weasley. . . . They were drawing nearer to the plain black door at the
end of the corridor. . . . Harry expected to go through it . . . but Mr.
Weasley led him off to the left, down a flight of stone steps. . . .
I KNOW! I KNOW!
He was on all fours again on Snapes office floor, his scar was prick


OCCLUMENCY
ling unpleasantly, but the voice that had just issued from his mouth
was triumphant. He pushed himself up again to find Snape staring at
him, his wand raised. It looked as though, this time, Snape had lifted
the spell before Harry had even tried to fight back.
What happened then, Potter? he asked, eyeing Harry intently.
I saw  I remembered, Harry panted. Ive just realized . . .
Realized what? asked Snape sharply.
Harry did not answer at once he was still savoring the moment of
blinding realization as he rubbed his forehead. . . .
He had been dreaming about a windowless corridor ending in a
locked door for months, without once realizing that it was a real place.
Now, seeing the memory again, he knew that all along he had been
dreaming about the corridor down which he had run with Mr.
Weasley on the twelfth of August as they hurried to the courtrooms in
the Ministry. It was the corridor leading to the Department of Mys
teries, and Mr. Weasley had been there the night that he had been at
tacked by Voldemorts snake. . . .
He looked up at Snape.
Whats in the Department of Mysteries?
What did you say? Snape asked quietly and Harry saw, with deep
satisfaction, that Snape was unnerved.
I said, whats in the Department of Mysteries, sir? Harry said.
And why, said Snape slowly, would you ask such a thing?
Because, said Harry, watching Snape closely for a reaction, that
corridor Ive just seen  Ive been dreaming about it for months 
Ive just recognized it  it leads to the Department of Mysteries . . .
and I think Voldemort wants something from 
I have told you not to say the Dark Lords name!
They glared at each other. Harrys scar seared again, but he did not
care. Snape looked agitated. When he spoke again he sounded as
though he was trying to appear cool and unconcerned.


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
There are many things in the Department of Mysteries, Potter,
few of which you would understand and none of which concern you,
do I make myself plain?
Yes, Harry said, still rubbing his prickling scar, which was be
coming more painful.
I want you back here same time on Wednesday, and we will con
tinue work then.
Fine, said Harry. He was desperate to get out of Snapes office
and find Ron and Hermione.
You are to rid your mind of all emotion every night before
sleep  empty it, make it blank and calm, you understand?
Yes, said Harry, who was barely listening.
And be warned, Potter . . . I shall know if you have not prac
ticed . . .
Right, Harry mumbled. He picked up his schoolbag, swung it
over his shoulder, and hurried toward the office door. As he opened it
he glanced back at Snape, who had his back to Harry and was scoop
ing his own thoughts out of the Pensieve with the tip of his wand and
replacing them carefully inside his own head. Harry left without an
other word, closing the door carefully behind him, his scar still throb
bing painfully.
Harry found Ron and Hermione in the library, where they were
working on Umbridges most recent ream of homework. Other stu
dents, nearly all of them fifth years, sat at lamplit tables nearby, noses
close to books, quills scratching feverishly, while the sky outside the
mullioned windows grew steadily blacker. The only other sound was
the slight squeaking of one of Madam Pinces shoes as the librarian
prowled the aisles menacingly, breathing down the necks of those
touching her precious books.
Harry felt shivery his scar was still aching, he felt almost feverish.
When he sat down opposite Ron and Hermione he caught sight of


OCCLUMENCY
himself in the window opposite. He was very white, and his scar
seemed to be showing up more clearly than usual.
How did it go? Hermione whispered, and then, looking con
cerned, Are you all right, Harry?
Yeah . . . fine . . . I dunno, said Harry impatiently, wincing as
pain shot through his scar again. Listen . . . Ive just realized some
thing. . . .
And he told them what he had just seen and deduced.
So . . . so, are you saying . . . whispered Ron, as Madam Pince
swept past, squeaking slightly, that the weapon  the thing You
KnowWhos after  is in the Ministry of Magic?
In the Department of Mysteries, its got to be, Harry whispered.
I saw that door when your dad took me down to the courtrooms for
my hearing and its definitely the same one he was guarding when the
snake bit him.
Hermione let out a long, slow sigh. Of course, she breathed.
Of course what? said Ron rather impatiently.
Ron, think about it. . . . Sturgis Podmore was trying to get
through a door at the Ministry of Magic. . . . It must have been that
one, its too much of a coincidence!
How come Sturgis was trying to break in when hes on our side?
said Ron.
Well, I dont know, Hermione admitted. That is a bit odd. . . .
So whats in the Department of Mysteries? Harry asked Ron.
Has your dad ever mentioned anything about it?
I know they call the people who work in there Unspeakables, 
said Ron, frowning. Because no one really seems to know what they
do in there. . . . Weird place to have a weapon . . .
Its not weird at all, it makes perfect sense, said Hermione. It will
be something top secret that the Ministry has been developing, I ex
pect. . . . Harry, are you sure youre all right?


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
For Harry had just run both his hands hard over his forehead as
though trying to iron it.
Yeah . . . fine . . . he said, lowering his hands, which were trem
bling. I just feel a bit . . . I dont like Occlumency much. . . .
I expect anyone would feel shaky if theyd had their mind attacked
over and over again, said Hermione sympathetically. Look, lets get
back to the common room, well be a bit more comfortable there. . . .
But the common room was packed and full of shrieks of laughter
and excitement Fred and George were demonstrating their latest bit
of joke shop merchandise.
Headless Hats! shouted George, as Fred waved a pointed hat dec
orated with a fluffy pink feather at the watching students. Two
Galleons each  watch Fred, now!
Fred swept the hat onto his head, beaming. For a second he merely
looked rather stupid, then both hat and head vanished.
Several girls screamed, but everyone else was roaring with laughter.
And off again! shouted George, and Freds hand groped for a mo
ment in what seemed to be thin air over his shoulder then his head
reappeared as he swept the pinkfeathered hat from it again.
How do those hats work, then? said Hermione, distracted from
her homework and watching Fred and George. I mean, obviously its
some kind of Invisibility Spell, but its rather clever to have extended
the field of invisibility beyond the boundaries of the charmed object.
. . . Id imagine the charm wouldnt have a very long life though. . . .
Harry did not answer he was still feeling ill.
Im going to have to do this tomorrow, he muttered, pushing the
books he had just taken out of his bag back inside it.
Well, write it in your homework planner then! said Hermione
encouragingly. So you dont forget!
Harry and Ron exchanged looks as he reached into his bag, with
drew the planner and opened it tentatively.


OCCLUMENCY
Dont leave it till later, you big secondrater! chided the book as
Harry scribbled down Umbridges homework. Hermione beamed at it.
I think Ill go to bed, said Harry, stuffing the homework planner
back into his bag and making a mental note to drop it in the fire the
first opportunity he got.
He walked across the common room, dodging George, who tried
to put a Headless Hat on him, and reached the peace and cool of the
stone staircase to the boys dormitories. He was feeling sick again, just
as he had the night he had had the vision of the snake, but thought
that if he could just lie down for a while he would be all right.
He opened the door of his dormitory and was one step inside it
when he experienced pain so severe he thought that someone must
have sliced into the top of his head. He did not know where he was,
whether he was standing or lying down, he did not even know his own
name. . . .
Maniacal laughter was ringing in his ears. . . . He was happier than
he had been in a very long time. . . . Jubilant, ecstatic, triumphant . . .
A wonderful, wonderful thing had happened. . . .
Harry? HARRY!
Someone had hit him around the face. The insane laughter was
punctuated with a cry of pain. The happiness was draining out of
him, but the laughter continued. . . .
He opened his eyes and as he did so, he became aware that the wild
laughter was coming out of his own mouth. The moment he realized
this, it died away Harry lay panting on the floor, staring up at the
ceiling, the scar on his forehead throbbing horribly. Ron was bending
over him, looking very worried.
What happened? he said.
I . . . dunno . . . Harry gasped, sitting up again. Hes really
happy . . . really happy . . .
YouKnowWho is?


CHAPTER TWENTYFOUR
Something goods happened, mumbled Harry. He was shaking as
badly as he had done after seeing the snake attack Mr. Weasley and felt
very sick. Something hes been hoping for.
The words came, just as they had back in the Gryffindor changing
room, as though a stranger was speaking them through Harrys
mouth, yet he knew they were true. He took deep breaths, willing
himself not to vomit all over Ron. He was very glad that Dean and
Seamus were not here to watch this time.
Hermione told me to come and check on you, said Ron in a low
voice, helping Harry to his feet. She says your defenses will be low at
the moment, after Snapes been fiddling around with your mind. . . .
Still, I suppose itll help in the long run, wont it?
He looked doubtfully at Harry as he helped him toward bed. Harry
nodded without any conviction and slumped back on his pillows,
aching all over from having fallen to the floor so often that evening,
his scar still prickling painfully. He could not help feeling that his first
foray into Occlumency had weakened his minds resistance rather
than strengthening it, and he wondered, with a feeling of great trepi
dation, what had happened to make Lord Voldemort the happiest he
had been in fourteen years.


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y  F I V E
THE BEETLE AT BAY
H
arrys question was answered the very next morning. When
Hermiones Daily Prophet arrived she smoothed it out, gazed
for a moment at the front page, and then gave a yelp that caused every
one in the vicinity to stare at her.
What? said Harry and Ron together.
For an answer she spread the newspaper on the table in front of
them and pointed at ten blackandwhite photographs that filled the
whole of the front page, nine showing wizards faces and the tenth, a
witchs. Some of the people in the photographs were silently jeering
others were tapping their fingers on the frame of their pictures, look
ing insolent. Each picture was captioned with a name and the crime
for which the person had been sent to Azkaban.
Antonin Dolohov, read the legend beneath a wizard with a long,
pale, twisted face who was sneering up at Harry, convicted of the bru
tal murders of Gideon and Fabian Prewett.
Augustus Rookwood, said the caption beneath a pockmarked man
with greasy hair who was leaning against the edge of his picture,


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
looking bored, convicted of leaking Ministry of Magic Secrets to He
WhoMustNotBeNamed.
But Harrys eyes were drawn to the picture of the witch. Her face
had leapt out at him the moment he had seen the page. She had long,
dark hair that looked unkempt and straggly in the picture, though he
had seen it sleek, thick, and shining. She glared up at him through
heavily lidded eyes, an arrogant, disdainful smile playing around her
thin mouth. Like Sirius, she retained vestiges of great good looks, but
something  perhaps Azkaban  had taken most of her beauty.
Bellatrix Lestrange, convicted of the torture and permanent incapaci
tation of Frank and Alice Longbottom.
Hermione nudged Harry and pointed at the headline over the pic
tures, which Harry, concentrating on Bellatrix, had not yet read.
MASS BREAKOUT FROM AZKABAN
MINISTRY FEARS BLACK IS RALLYING POINT
FOR OLD DEATH EATERS
Black? said Harry loudly. Not  ?
Shhh! whispered Hermione desperately. Not so loud  just
read it!
The Ministry of Magic announced late last night that
there has been a mass breakout from Azkaban.
Speaking to reporters in his private office, Cor
nelius Fudge, Minister of Magic, confirmed that ten
highsecurity prisoners escaped in the early hours of
yesterday evening, and that he has already informed
the Muggle Prime Minister of the dangerous nature
of these individuals.
We find ourselves, most unfortunately, in the
same position we were two and a half years ago when


THE BEETLE AT BAY
the murderer Sirius Black escaped, said Fudge last
night. Nor do we think the two breakouts are unre
lated. An escape of this magnitude suggests outside
help, and we must remember that Black, as the first
person ever to break out of Azkaban, would be ideally
placed to help others follow in his footsteps. We think
it likely that these individuals, who include Blacks
cousin, Bellatrix Lestrange, have rallied around Black
as their leader. We are, however, doing all we can to
round up the criminals and beg the magical commu
nity to remain alert and cautious. On no account
should any of these individuals be approached.
There you are, Harry, said Ron, looking awestruck. Thats why
he was happy last night. . . .
I dont believe this, snarled Harry, Fudge is blaming the break
out on Sirius?
What other options does he have? said Hermione bitterly. He
can hardly say, Sorry everyone, Dumbledore warned me this might
happen, the Azkaban guards have joined Lord Voldemort  stop
whimpering, Ron  and now Voldemorts worst supporters have bro
ken out too. I mean, hes spent a good six months telling everyone
you and Dumbledore are liars, hasnt he?
Hermione ripped open the newspaper and began to read the report
inside while Harry looked around the Great Hall. He could not un
derstand why his fellow students were not looking scared or at least
discussing the terrible piece of news on the front page, but very few of
them took the newspaper every day like Hermione. There they all
were, talking about homework and Quidditch and who knew what
other rubbish, and outside these walls ten more Death Eaters had
swollen Voldemorts ranks. . . .
He glanced up at the staff table. It was a different story here


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall were deep in conversation,
both looking extremely grave. Professor Sprout had the Prophet
propped against a bottle of ketchup and was reading the front page
with such concentration that she was not noticing the gentle drip of
egg yolk falling into her lap from her stationary spoon. Meanwhile, at
the far end of the table, Professor Umbridge was tucking into a bowl
of porridge. For once her pouchy toads eyes were not sweeping the
Great Hall looking for misbehaving students. She scowled as she
gulped down her food and every now and then she shot a malevolent
glance up the table to where Dumbledore and McGonagall were talk
ing so intently.
Oh my  said Hermione wonderingly, still staring at the
newspaper.
What now? said Harry quickly he was feeling jumpy.
Its . . . horrible, said Hermione, looking shaken. She folded back
page ten of the newspaper and handed it back to Harry and Ron.
TRAGIC DEMISE OF
MINISTRY OF MAGIC WORKER
St. Mungos Hospital promised a full inquiry last
night after Ministry of Magic worker Broderick
Bode, , was discovered dead in his bed, strangled by
a pottedplant. Healers called to the scene were unable
to revive Mr. Bode, who had been injured in a
workplace accident some weeks prior to his death.
Healer Miriam Strout, who was in charge of Mr.
Bodes ward at the time of the incident, has been sus
pended on full pay and was unavailable for comment
yesterday, but a spokeswizard for the hospital said in
a statement, St. Mungos deeply regrets the death of
Mr. Bode, whose health was improving steadily prior
to this tragic accident.


THE BEETLE AT BAY
We have strict guidelines on the decorations per
mitted on our wards but it appears that Healer Strout,
busy over the Christmas period, overlooked the
dangers of the plant on Mr. Bodes bedside table. As
his speech and mobility improved, Healer Strout en
couraged Mr. Bode to look after the plant himself,
unaware that it was not an innocent Flitterbloom, but
a cutting of Devils Snare, which, when touched by
the convalescent Mr. Bode, throttled him instantly.
St. Mungos is as yet unable to account for the
presence of the plant on the ward and asks any witch
or wizard with information to come forward.
Bode . . . said Ron. Bode. It rings a bell. . . .
We saw him, Hermione whispered. In St. Mungos, remember?
He was in the bed opposite Lockharts, just lying there, staring at the
ceiling. And we saw the Devils Snare arrive. She  the Healer 
said it was a Christmas present. . . .
Harry looked back at the story. A feeling of horror was rising like
bile in his throat.
How come we didnt recognize Devils Snare . . . ? Weve seen it
before . . . we couldve stopped this from happening . . .
Who expects Devils Snare to turn up in a hospital disguised as a
potted plant? said Ron sharply. Its not our fault, whoever sent it to
the bloke is to blame! They must be a real prat, why didnt they check
what they were buying?
Oh come on, Ron! said Hermione shakily, I dont think anyone
could put Devils Snare in a pot and not realize it tries to kill whoever
touches it? This  this was murder. . . . A clever murder, as well. . . .
If the plant was sent anonymously, hows anyone ever going to find
out who did it?
Harry was not thinking about Devils Snare. He was remembering


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
taking the lift down to the ninth level of the Ministry on the day of
his hearing, and the sallowfaced man who had got in on the Atrium
level.
I met Bode, he said slowly. I saw him at the Ministry with your
dad . . .
Rons mouth fell open.
Ive heard Dad talk about him at home! He was an Unspeak
able  he worked in the Department of Mysteries!
They looked at one another for a moment, then Hermione pulled
the newspaper back toward her, closed it, glared for a moment at the
pictures of the ten escaped Death Eaters on the front, then leapt to her
feet.
Where are you going? said Ron, startled.
To send a letter, said Hermione, swinging her bag onto her
shoulder. It . . . well, I dont know whether . . . but its worth trying
. . . and Im the only one who can . . .
I hate it when she does that, grumbled Ron as he and Harry got
up from the table and made their own, slower way out of the Great
Hall. Would it kill her to tell us what shes up to for once? Itd take
her about ten more seconds  hey, Hagrid!
Hagrid was standing beside the doors into the entrance hall, wait
ing for a crowd of Ravenclaws to pass. He was still as heavily bruised
as he had been on the day he had come back from his mission to the
giants and there was a new cut right across the bridge of his nose.
All righ, you two? he said, trying to muster a smile but managing
only a kind of pained grimace.
Are you okay, Hagrid? asked Harry, following him as he lum
bered after the Ravenclaws.
Fine, fine, said Hagrid with a feeble assumption of airiness he
waved a hand and narrowly missed concussing a frightenedlooking
Professor Vector, who was passing. Jus busy, yeh know, usual stuff 


THE BEETLE AT BAY
lessons ter prepare  couple o salamanders got scale rot  an Im
on probation, he mumbled.
Youre on probation? said Ron very loudly, so that many students
passing looked around curiously. Sorry  I mean  youre on pro
bation? he whispered.
Yeah, said Hagrid.  Sno moren I expected, ter tell yeh the
truth. Yeh migh notve picked up on it, bu that inspection didn go
too well, yeh know . . . anyway, he sighed deeply. Bes go an rub a
bit more chili powder on them salamanders or their tailsll be hangin
off em next. See yeh, Harry . . . Ron . . .
He trudged away, out the front doors and down the stone steps into
the damp grounds. Harry watched him go, wondering how much
more bad news he could stand.
The fact that Hagrid was now on probation became common knowl
edge within the school over the next few days, but to Harrys indigna
tion, hardly anybody appeared to be upset about it indeed, some
people, Draco Malfoy prominent among them, seemed positively
gleeful. As for the freakish death of an obscure Department of Mys
teries employee in St. Mungos, Harry, Ron, and Hermione seemed to
be the only people who knew or cared. There was only one topic of
conversation in the corridors now the ten escaped Death Eaters,
whose story had finally filtered through the school from those few
people who read the newspapers. Rumors were flying that some of the
convicts had been spotted in Hogsmeade, that they were supposed to
be hiding out in the Shrieking Shack and that they were going to
break into Hogwarts, just as Sirius Black had done.
Those who came from Wizarding families had grown up hearing
the names of these Death Eaters spoken with almost as much fear
as Voldemorts the crimes they had committed during the days
of Voldemorts reign of terror were legendary. There were relatives of


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
their victims among the Hogwarts students, who now found them
selves the unwilling objects of a gruesome sort of reflected fame as
they walked the corridors Susan Bones, who had an uncle, aunt, and
cousins who had all died at the hands of one of the ten, said miserably
during Herbology that she now had a good idea what it felt like to be
Harry.
And I dont know how you stand it, its horrible, she said bluntly,
dumping far too much dragon manure on her tray of Screechsnap
seedlings, causing them to wriggle and squeak in discomfort.
It was true that Harry was the subject of much renewed muttering
and pointing in the corridors these days, yet he thought he detected a
slight difference in the tone of the whisperers voices. They sounded
curious rather than hostile now, and once or twice he was sure he over
heard snatches of conversation that suggested that the speakers were
not satisfied with the Prophets version of how and why ten Death
Eaters had managed to break out of Azkaban fortress. In their confu
sion and fear, these doubters now seemed to be turning to the only
other explanation available to them, the one that Harry and Dumble
dore had been expounding since the previous year.
It was not only the students mood that had changed. It was now
quite common to come across two or three teachers conversing in low,
urgent whispers in the corridors, breaking off their conversations the
moment they saw students approaching.
They obviously cant talk freely in the staffroom anymore, said
Hermione in a low voice, as she, Harry, and Ron passed Professors
McGonagall, Flitwick, and Sprout huddled together outside the
Charms classroom one day. Not with Umbridge there.
Reckon they know anything new? said Ron, gazing back over his
shoulder at the three teachers.
If they do, were not going to hear about it, are we? said Harry an
grily. Not after Decree . . . What number are we on now?


THE BEETLE AT BAY
For new signs had appeared on the house notice boards the morn
ing after news of the Azkaban breakout
 by order of 
The High Inquisitor of Hogwarts
Teachers are hereby banned from giving students any infor
mation that is not strictly related to the subjects they are
paid to teach.
The above is in accordance with
Educational Decree Number Twentysix.
Signed
high inquisitor
This latest decree had been the subject of a great number of jokes
among the students. Lee Jordan had pointed out to Umbridge that by
the terms of the new rule she was not allowed to tell Fred and George
off for playing Exploding Snap in the back of the class.
Exploding Snaps got nothing to do with Defense Against the
Dark Arts, Professor! Thats not information relating to your subject!
When Harry next saw Lee, the back of his hand was bleeding rather
badly. Harry recommended essence of murtlap.
Harry had thought that the breakout from Azkaban might have
humbled Umbridge a little, that she might have been abashed at the
catastrophe that had occurred right under her beloved Fudges nose. It
seemed, however, to have only intensified her furious desire to bring
every aspect of life at Hogwarts under her personal control. She


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
seemed determined at the very least to achieve a sacking before long,
and the only question was whether it would be Professor Trelawney or
Hagrid who went first.
Every single Divination and Care of Magical Creatures lesson was
now conducted in the presence of Umbridge and her clipboard. She
lurked by the fire in the heavily perfumed tower room, interrupting
Professor Trelawneys increasingly hysterical talks with difficult ques
tions about Ornithomancy and Heptomology, insisting that she pre
dict students answers before they gave them and demanding that she
demonstrate her skill at the crystal ball, the tea leaves, and the rune
stones in turn. Harry thought that Professor Trelawney might soon
crack under the strain several times he passed her in the corridors in
itself a very unusual occurrence as she generally remained in her tower
room, muttering wildly to herself, wringing her hands, and shooting
terrified glances over her shoulder, all the time giving off a powerful
smell of cooking sherry. If he had not been so worried about Hagrid,
he would have felt sorry for her  but if one of them was to be ousted
out of a job, there could be only one choice for Harry as to who
should remain.
Unfortunately, Harry could not see that Hagrid was putting up a
better show than Trelawney. Though he seemed to be following Her
miones advice and had shown them nothing more frightening than
a crup, a creature indistinguishable from a Jack Russell terrier except
for its forked tail, since before Christmas, he also seemed to have lost
his nerve. He was oddly distracted and jumpy in lessons, losing the
thread of what he was saying while talking to the class, answering
questions wrongly and glancing anxiously at Umbridge all the time.
He was also more distant with Harry, Ron, and Hermione than he had
ever been before, expressly forbidding them to visit him after dark.
If she catches yeh, itll be all of our necks on the line, he told
them flatly, and with no desire to do anything that jeopardized his job
further, they abstained from walking down to his hut in the evenings.


THE BEETLE AT BAY
It seemed to Harry that Umbridge was steadily depriving him of
everything that made his life at Hogwarts worth living visits to Ha
grids house, letters from Sirius, his Firebolt, and Quidditch. He took
his revenge the only way he had redoubling his efforts for the D.A.
Harry was pleased to see that all of them, even Zacharias Smith,
had been spurred to work harder than ever by the news that ten more
Death Eaters were now on the loose, but in nobody was this improve
ment more pronounced than in Neville. The news of his parents at
tackers escape had wrought a strange and even slightly alarming
change in him. He had not once mentioned his meeting with Harry,
Ron, and Hermione on the closed ward in St. Mungos, and taking
their lead from him, they had kept quiet about it too. Nor had he said
anything on the subject of Bellatrix and her fellow torturers escape in
fact, he barely spoke during D.A. meetings anymore, but worked re
lentlessly on every new jinx and countercurse Harry taught them, his
plump face screwed up in concentration, apparently indifferent to in
juries or accidents, working harder than anyone else in the room. He
was improving so fast it was quite unnerving and when Harry taught
them the Shield Charm, a means of deflecting minor jinxes so that
they rebounded upon the attacker, only Hermione mastered the
charm faster than Neville.
In fact Harry would have given a great deal to be making as much
progress at Occlumency as Neville was making during D.A. meetings.
Harrys sessions with Snape, which had started badly enough, were
not improving on the contrary, Harry felt he was getting worse with
every lesson.
Before he had started studying Occlumency, his scar had prickled
occasionally, usually during the night, or else following one of those
strange flashes of Voldemorts thoughts or moods that he experienced
every now and then. Nowadays, however, his scar hardly ever stopped
prickling, and he often felt lurches of annoyance or cheerfulness that
were unrelated to what was happening to him at the time, which were


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
always accompanied by a particularly painful twinge from his scar. He
had the horrible impression that he was slowly turning into a kind of
aerial that was tuned in to tiny fluctuations in Voldemorts mood, and
he was sure he could date this increased sensitivity firmly from his first
Occlumency lesson with Snape. What was more, he was now dream
ing about walking down the corridor toward the entrance to the
Department of Mysteries almost every night, dreams that always cul
minated in him standing longingly in front of the plain black door.
Maybe its a bit like an illness, said Hermione, looking concerned
when Harry confided in her and Ron. A fever or something. It has to
get worse before it gets better.
Its lessons with Snape that are making it worse, said Harry flatly.
Im getting sick of my scar hurting, and Im getting bored walking
down that corridor every night. He rubbed his forehead angrily. I
just wish the door would open, Im sick of standing staring at it 
Thats not funny, said Hermione sharply. Dumbledore doesnt
want you to have dreams about that corridor at all, or he wouldnt
have asked Snape to teach you Occlumency. Youre just going to have
to work a bit harder in your lessons.
I am working! said Harry, nettled. You try it sometime, Snape
trying to get inside your head, its not a bundle of laughs, you know!
Maybe . . . said Ron slowly.
Maybe what? said Hermione rather snappishly.
Maybe its not Harrys fault he cant close his mind, said Ron darkly.
What do you mean? said Hermione.
Well, maybe Snape isnt really trying to help Harry. . . .
Harry and Hermione stared at him. Ron looked darkly and mean
ingfully from one to the other.
Maybe, he said again in a lower voice, hes actually trying to
open Harrys mind a bit wider . . . make it easier for YouKnow 
Shut up, Ron, said Hermione angrily. How many times have


THE BEETLE AT BAY
you suspected Snape, and when have you ever been right? Dumble
dore trusts him, he works for the Order, that ought to be enough.
He used to be a Death Eater, said Ron stubbornly. And weve
never seen proof that he really swapped sides. . . .
Dumbledore trusts him, Hermione repeated. And if we cant
trust Dumbledore, we cant trust anyone.
With so much to worry about and so much to do  startling
amounts of homework that frequently kept the fifth years working
until past midnight, secret D.A. meetings, and regular classes with
Snape  January seemed to be passing alarmingly fast. Before Harry
knew it, February had arrived, bringing with it wetter and warmer
weather and the prospect of the second Hogsmeade visit of the year.
Harry had had very little time to spare on conversations with Cho
since they had agreed to visit the village together, but suddenly found
himself facing a Valentines Day spent entirely in her company.
On the morning of the fourteenth he dressed particularly carefully.
He and Ron arrived at breakfast just in time for the arrival of the post
owls. Hedwig was not there  not that he had expected her  but
Hermione was tugging a letter from the beak of an unfamiliar brown
owl as they sat down.
And about time! If it hadnt come today . . . she said eagerly, tear
ing open the envelope and pulling out a small piece of parchment.
Her eyes sped from left to right as she read through the message and a
grimly pleased expression spread across her face.
Listen, Harry, she said, looking up at him. This is really impor
tant. . . . Do you think you could meet me in the Three Broomsticks
around midday?
Well . . . I dunno, said Harry dubiously. Cho might be expect
ing me to spend the whole day with her. We never said what we were
going to do.


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
Well, bring her along if you must, said Hermione urgently. But
will you come?
Well . . . all right, but why?
I havent got time to tell you now, Ive got to answer this
quickly 
And she hurried out of the Great Hall, the letter clutched in one
hand and a piece of uneaten toast in the other.
Are you coming? Harry asked Ron, but he shook his head, look
ing glum.
I cant come into Hogsmeade at all, Angelina wants a full days
training. Like its going to help  were the worst team Ive ever seen.
You should see Sloper and Kirke, theyre pathetic, even worse than I
am. He heaved a great sigh. I dunno why Angelina wont just let me
resign. . . .
Its because youre good when youre on form, thats why, said
Harry irritably.
He found it very hard to be sympathetic to Rons plight when he
himself would have given almost anything to be playing in the forth
coming match against Hufflepuff. Ron seemed to notice Harrys tone,
because he did not mention Quidditch again during breakfast, and
there was a slight frostiness in the way they said goodbye to each
other shortly afterward. Ron departed for the Quidditch pitch and
Harry, after attempting to flatten his hair while staring at his reflection
in the back of a teaspoon, proceeded alone to the entrance hall to
meet Cho, feeling very apprehensive and wondering what on earth
they were going to talk about.
She was waiting for him a little to the side of the oak front doors,
looking very pretty with her hair tied back in a long ponytail. Harrys
feet seemed to be too big for his body as he walked toward her, and he
was suddenly horribly aware of his arms and how stupid they looked
swinging at his sides.


THE BEETLE AT BAY
Hi, said Cho slightly breathlessly.
Hi, said Harry.
They stared at each other for a moment, then Harry said, Well 
er  shall we go, then?
Oh  yes . . .
They joined the queue of people being signed out by Filch, occa
sionally catching each others eye and grinning shiftily, but not talking
to each other. Harry was relieved when they reached the fresh air, find
ing it easier to walk along in silence than just stand there looking awk
ward. It was a fresh, breezy sort of day and as they passed the Quidditch
stadium, Harry glimpsed Ron and Ginny skimming over the stands
and felt a horrible pang that he was not up there with them. . . .
You really miss it, dont you? said Cho.
He looked around and saw her watching him.
Yeah, sighed Harry. I do.
Remember the first time we played against each other, in the third
year? she asked him.
Yeah, said Harry, grinning. You kept blocking me.
And Wood told you not to be a gentleman and knock me off my
broom if you had to, said Cho, smiling reminiscently. I heard he got
taken on by Pride of Portree, is that right?
Nah, it was Puddlemere United, I saw him at the World Cup last
year.
Oh, I saw you there too, remember? We were on the same camp
site. It was really good, wasnt it?
The subject of the Quidditch World Cup carried them all the way
down the drive and out through the gates. Harry could hardly believe
how easy it was to talk to her, no more difficult, in fact, than talking
to Ron and Hermione, and he was just starting to feel confident and
cheerful when a large gang of Slytherin girls passed them, including
Pansy Parkinson.


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
Potter and Chang! screeched Pansy to a chorus of snide giggles.
Urgh, Chang, I dont think much of your taste. . . . At least Diggory
was goodlooking!
They sped up, talking and shrieking in a pointed fashion with
many exaggerated glances back at Harry and Cho, leaving an embar
rassed silence in their wake. Harry could think of nothing else to say
about Quidditch, and Cho, slightly flushed, was watching her feet.
So . . . where dyou want to go? Harry asked as they entered
Hogsmeade. The High Street was full of students ambling up and
down, peering into the shop windows and messing about together on
the pavements.
Oh . . . I dont mind, said Cho, shrugging. Um . . . shall we just
have a look in the shops or something?
They wandered toward Dervish and Banges. A large poster had
been stuck up in the window and a few Hogsmeaders were looking at
it. They moved aside when Harry and Cho approached and Harry
found himself staring once more at the ten pictures of the escaped
Death Eaters. The poster By Order of the Ministry of Magic of
fered a thousandGalleon reward to any witch or wizard with infor
mation relating to the recapture of any of the convicts pictured.
Its funny, isnt it, said Cho in a low voice, also gazing up at the
pictures of the Death Eaters. Remember when that Sirius Black es
caped, and there were dementors all over Hogsmeade looking for
him? And now ten Death Eaters are on the loose and there arent de
mentors anywhere. . . .
Yeah, said Harry, tearing his eyes away from Bellatrix Lestranges
face to glance up and down the High Street. Yeah, it is weird. . . .
He was not sorry that there were no dementors nearby, but now he
came to think of it, their absence was highly significant. They had not
only let the Death Eaters escape, they were not bothering to look for
them. . . . It looked as though they really were outside Ministry con
trol now.


THE BEETLE AT BAY
The ten escaped Death Eaters were staring out of every shop window
he and Cho passed. It started to rain as they passed Scrivenshafts cold,
heavy drops of water kept hitting Harrys face and the back of his neck.
Um . . . dyou want to get a coffee? said Cho tentatively, as the
rain began to fall more heavily.
Yeah, all right, said Harry, looking around. Where  ?
Oh, theres a really nice place just up here, havent you ever been
to Madam Puddifoots? she said brightly, and she led him up a side
road and into a small tea shop that Harry had never noticed before. It
was a cramped, steamy little place where everything seemed to have
been decorated with frills or bows. Harry was reminded unpleasantly
of Umbridges office.
Cute, isnt it? said Cho happily.
Er . . . yeah, said Harry untruthfully.
Look, shes decorated it for Valentines Day! said Cho, indicating
a number of golden cherubs that were hovering over each of the small,
circular tables, occasionally throwing pink confetti over the occupants.
Aaah . . .
They sat down at the last remaining table, which was situated in
the steamy window. Roger Davies, the Ravenclaw Quidditch Captain,
was sitting about a foot and a half away with a pretty blonde girl. They
were holding hands. The sight made Harry feel uncomfortable, par
ticularly when, looking around the tea shop, he saw that it was full of
nothing but couples, all of them holding hands. Perhaps Cho would
expect him to hold her hand.
What can I get you, mdears? said Madam Puddifoot, a very stout
woman with a shiny black bun, squeezing between their table and
Roger Daviess with great difficulty.
Two coffees, please, said Cho.
In the time it took for their coffees to arrive, Roger Davies and his
girlfriend started kissing over their sugar bowl. Harry wished they
wouldnt he felt that Davies was setting a standard with which Cho


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
would soon expect him to compete. He felt his face growing hot and
tried staring out of the window, but it was so steamed up he could not
see the street outside. To postpone the moment when he had to look
at Cho he stared up at the ceiling as though examining the paintwork
and received a handful of confetti in the face from their hovering
cherub.
After a few more painful minutes Cho mentioned Umbridge
Harry seized on the subject with relief and they passed a few happy
moments abusing her, but the subject had already been so thoroughly
canvassed during D.A. meetings it did not last very long. Silence fell
again. Harry was very conscious of the slurping noises coming from
the table next door and cast wildly around for something else to say.
Er . . . listen, dyou want to come with me to the Three Broom
sticks at lunchtime? Im meeting Hermione Granger there.
Cho raised her eyebrows.
Youre meeting Hermione Granger? Today?
Yeah. Well, she asked me to, so I thought I would. Dyou want to
come with me? She said it wouldnt matter if you did.
Oh . . . well . . . that was nice of her.
But Cho did not sound as though she thought it was nice at all on
the contrary, her tone was cold and all of a sudden she looked rather
forbidding.
A few more minutes passed in total silence, Harry drinking his cof
fee so fast that he would soon need a fresh cup. Next door, Roger
Davies and his girlfriend seemed glued together by the lips.
Chos hand was lying on the table beside her coffee, and Harry was
feeling a mounting pressure to take hold of it. Just do it, he told him
self, as a fount of mingled panic and excitement surged up inside his
chest. Just reach out and grab it. . . . Amazing how much more difficult
it was to extend his arm twelve inches and touch her hand than to
snatch a speeding Snitch from midair . . .
But just as he moved his hand forward, Cho took hers off the table.


THE BEETLE AT BAY
She was now watching Roger Davies kissing his girlfriend with a
mildly interested expression.
He asked me out, you know, she said in a quiet voice. A couple
of weeks ago. Roger. I turned him down, though.
Harry, who had grabbed the sugar bowl to excuse his sudden lung
ing movement across the table, could not think why she was telling
him this. If she wished she were sitting at the table next door being
heartily kissed by Roger Davies, why had she agreed to come out with
him?
He said nothing. Their cherub threw another handful of confetti
over them some of it landed in the last cold dregs of coffee Harry had
been about to drink.
I came in here with Cedric last year, said Cho.
In the second or so it took for him to take in what she had said,
Harrys insides had become glacial. He could not believe she wanted
to talk about Cedric now, while kissing couples surrounded them and
a cherub floated over their heads.
Chos voice was rather higher when she spoke again.
Ive been meaning to ask you for ages. . . . Did Cedric  did he
mmmention me at all before he died?
This was the very last subject on earth Harry wanted to discuss, and
least of all with Cho.
Well  no  he said quietly. There  there wasnt time for
him to say anything. Erm . . . so . . . dyou . . . dyou get to see a lot of
Quidditch in the holidays? You support the Tornados, right?
His voice sounded falsely bright and cheery. To his horror, he saw
that her eyes were swimming with tears again, just as they had been af
ter the last D.A. meeting before Christmas.
Look, he said desperately, leaning in so that nobody else could
overhear, lets not talk about Cedric right now. . . . Lets talk about
something else. . . .
But this, apparently, was quite the wrong thing to say.


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
I thought, she said, tears spattering down onto the table. I
thought youd uuunderstand! I need to talk about it! Surely you
nneed to talk about it ttoo! I mean, you saw it happen, ddidnt
you?
Everything was going nightmarishly wrong Roger Davies girl
friend had even unglued herself to look around at Cho crying.
Well  I have talked about it, Harry said in a whisper, to Ron
and Hermione, but 
Oh, youll talk to Hermione Granger! she said shrilly, her face
now shining with tears, and several more kissing couples broke apart
to stare. But you wont talk to me! Pperhaps it would be best if
we just . . . just ppaid and you went and met up with Hermione
GGranger, like you obviously want to!
Harry stared at her, utterly bewildered, as she seized a frilly napkin
and dabbed at her shining face with it.
Cho? he said weakly, wishing Roger would seize his girlfriend
and start kissing her again to stop her goggling at him and Cho.
Go on, leave! she said, now crying into the napkin. I dont know
why you asked me out in the first place if youre going to make
arrangements to meet other girls right after me. . . . How many are
you meeting after Hermione?
Its not like that! said Harry, and he was so relieved at finally un
derstanding what she was annoyed about that he laughed, which he
realized a split second too late was a mistake.
Cho sprang to her feet. The whole tearoom was quiet, and every
body was watching them now.
Ill see you around, Harry, she said dramatically, and hiccuping
slightly she dashed to the door, wrenched it open, and hurried off into
the pouring rain.
Cho! Harry called after her, but the door had already swung shut
behind her with a tuneful tinkle.
There was total silence within the tea shop. Every eye was upon


THE BEETLE AT BAY
Harry. He threw a Galleon down onto the table, shook pink confetti
out of his eyes, and followed Cho out of the door.
It was raining hard now, and she was nowhere to be seen. He sim
ply did not understand what had happened half an hour ago they had
been getting along fine.
Women! he muttered angrily, sloshing down the rainwashed
street with his hands in his pockets. What did she want to talk about
Cedric for anyway? Why does she always want to drag up a subject
that makes her act like a human hosepipe?
He turned right and broke into a splashy run, and within minutes
he was turning into the doorway of the Three Broomsticks. He knew
he was too early to meet Hermione, but he thought it likely there
would be someone in here with whom he could spend the intervening
time. He shook his wet hair out of his eyes and looked around. Hagrid
was sitting alone in a corner, looking morose.
Hi, Hagrid! he said, when he had squeezed through the crammed
tables and pulled up a chair beside him.
Hagrid jumped and looked down at Harry as though he barely rec
ognized him. Harry saw that he had two fresh cuts on his face and sev
eral new bruises.
Oh, its you, Harry, said Hagrid. You all righ?
Yeah, Im fine, lied Harry in fact, next to this battered and
mournfullooking Hagrid, he felt he did not have much to complain
about. Er  are you okay?
Me? said Hagrid. Oh yeah, Im grand, Harry, grand. . . .
He gazed into the depths of his pewter tankard, which was the size
of a large bucket, and sighed. Harry did not know what to say to him.
They sat side by side in silence for a moment. Then Hagrid said
abruptly, In the same boat, you an me, aren we, Harry?
Er  said Harry.
Yeah . . . Ive said it before. . . . Both outsiders, like, said Hagrid,
nodding wisely. An both orphans. Yeah . . . both orphans.


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
He took a great swig from his tankard.
Makes a diff rence, havin a decent family, he said. Me dad was
decent. An your mum an dad were decent. If theyd lived, life woulda
bin diff rent, eh?
Yeah . . . I spose, said Harry cautiously. Hagrid seemed to be in
a very strange mood.
Family, said Hagrid gloomily. Whatever yeh say, bloods im
portant. . . .
And he wiped a trickle of it out of his eye.
Hagrid, said Harry, unable to stop himself, where are you get
ting all these injuries?
Eh? said Hagrid, looking startled. Wha injuries?
All those! said Harry, pointing at Hagrids face.
Oh . . . thas jus normal bumps an bruises, Harry, said Hagrid
dismissively. I got a rough job.
He drained his tankard, set it back upon the table, and got to his
feet.
Ill be seein yeh, Harry. . . . Take care now. . . .
And he lumbered out of the pub looking wretched and then disap
peared into the torrential rain. Harry watched him go, feeling miser
able. Hagrid was unhappy and he was hiding something, but he
seemed determined not to accept help. What was going on? But be
fore Harry could think about the matter any further, he heard a voice
calling his name.
Harry! Harry, over here!
Hermione was waving at him from the other side of the room. He
got up and made his way toward her through the crowded pub. He
was still a few tables away when he realized that Hermione was not
alone she was sitting at a table with the unlikeliest pair of drinking
mates he could ever have imagined Luna Lovegood and none other
than Rita Skeeter, exjournalist on the Daily Prophet and one of
Hermiones least favorite people in the world.


THE BEETLE AT BAY
Youre early! said Hermione, moving along to give him room to
sit down. I thought you were with Cho, I wasnt expecting you for
another hour at least!
Cho? said Rita at once, twisting around in her seat to stare avidly
at Harry. A girl ?
She snatched up her crocodileskin handbag and groped within it.
Its none of your business if Harrys been with a hundred girls,
Hermione told Rita coolly. So you can put that away right now.
Rita had been on the point of withdrawing an acidgreen quill from
her bag. Looking as though she had been forced to swallow Stinksap,
she snapped her bag shut again.
What are you up to? Harry asked, sitting down and staring from
Rita to Luna to Hermione.
Little Miss Perfect was just about to tell me when you arrived,
said Rita, taking a large slurp of her drink. I suppose Im allowed to
talk to him, am I? she shot at Hermione.
Yes, I suppose you are, said Hermione coldly.
Unemployment did not suit Rita. The hair that had once been set
in elaborate curls now hung lank and unkempt around her face. The
scarlet paint on her twoinch talons was chipped and there were a cou
ple of false jewels missing from her winged glasses. She took another
great gulp of her drink and said out of the corner of her mouth,
Pretty girl, is she, Harry?
One more word about Harrys love life and the deals off and thats
a promise, said Hermione irritably.
What deal? said Rita, wiping her mouth on the back of her hand.
You havent mentioned a deal yet, Miss Prissy, you just told me to turn
up. Oh, one of these days . . . She took a deep shuddering breath.
Yes, yes, one of these days youll write more horrible stories about
Harry and me, said Hermione indifferently. Find someone who
cares, why dont you?
Theyve run plenty of horrible stories about Harry this year


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
without my help, said Rita, shooting a sideways look at him over the
top of her glass and adding in a rough whisper, How has that made
you feel, Harry? Betrayed? Distraught? Misunderstood?
He feels angry, of course, said Hermione in a hard, clear voice.
Because hes told the Minister of Magic the truth and the Ministers
too much of an idiot to believe him.
So you actually stick to it, do you, that HeWhoMustNotBe
Named is back? said Rita, lowering her glass and subjecting Harry to
a piercing stare while her finger strayed longingly to the clasp of the
crocodile bag. You stand by all this garbage Dumbledores been
telling everybody about YouKnowWho returning and you being the
sole witness  ?
I wasnt the sole witness, snarled Harry. There were a dozenodd
Death Eaters there as well. Want their names?
Id love them, breathed Rita, now fumbling in her bag once more
and gazing at him as though he was the most beautiful thing she had
ever seen. A great bold headline  Potter Accuses . . . A subheading
 Harry Potter Names Death Eaters Still Among Us. And then, beneath a
nice big photograph of you  Disturbed teenage survivor of YouKnow
Whos attack, Harry Potter, , caused outrage yesterday by accusing re
spectable and prominent members of the Wizarding community of being
Death Eaters. . . . 
The QuickQuotes Quill was actually in her hand and halfway to
her mouth when the rapturous expression died out of her face.
But of course, she said, lowering the quill and looking daggers at
Hermione, Little Miss Perfect wouldnt want that story out there,
would she?
As a matter of fact, said Hermione sweetly, thats exactly what
Little Miss Perfect does want.
Rita stared at her. So did Harry. Luna, on the other hand, sang,
Weasley Is Our King dreamily under her breath and stirred her
drink with a cocktail onion on a stick.


THE BEETLE AT BAY
You want me to report what he says about HeWhoMustNot
BeNamed? Rita asked Hermione in a hushed voice.
Yes, I do, said Hermione. The true story. All the facts. Exactly as
Harry reports them. Hell give you all the details, hell tell you the
names of the undiscovered Death Eaters he saw there, hell tell you
what Voldemort looks like now  oh, get a grip on yourself, she
added contemptuously, throwing a napkin across the table, for at the
sound of Voldemorts name, Rita had jumped so badly that she had
slopped half her glass of firewhisky down herself.
Rita blotted the front of her grubby raincoat, still staring at
Hermione. Then she said baldly, The Prophet wouldnt print it. In
case you havent noticed, nobody believes his cockandbull story.
Everyone thinks hes delusional. Now, if you let me write the story
from that angle 
We dont need another story about how Harrys lost his marbles!
said Hermione angrily. Weve had plenty of those already, thank you!
I want him given the opportunity to tell the truth!
Theres no market for a story like that, said Rita coldly.
You mean the Prophet wont print it because Fudge wont let
them, said Hermione irritably.
Rita gave Hermione a long, hard look. Then, leaning forward
across the table toward her, she said in a businesslike tone, All right,
Fudge is leaning on the Prophet, but it comes to the same thing. They
wont print a story that shows Harry in a good light. Nobody wants to
read it. Its against the public mood. This last Azkaban breakout has
got people quite worried enough. People just dont want to believe
YouKnowWhos back.
So the Daily Prophet exists to tell people what they want to hear,
does it? said Hermione scathingly.
Rita sat up straight again, her eyebrows raised, and drained her
glass of firewhisky.
The Prophet exists to sell itself, you silly girl, she said coldly.


CHAPTER TWENTYFIVE
My dad thinks its an awful paper, said Luna, chipping into the
conversation unexpectedly. Sucking on her cocktail onion, she gazed
at Rita with her enormous, protuberant, slightly mad eyes. He pub
lishes important stories that he thinks the public needs to know. He
doesnt care about making money.
Rita looked disparagingly at Luna.
Im guessing your father runs some stupid little village news
letter? she said.  Twentyfive Ways to Mingle with Muggles and
the dates of the next BringandFly Sale?
No, said Luna, dipping her onion back into her gillywater, hes
the editor of The Quibbler.
Rita snorted so loudly that people at a nearby table looked around
in alarm.
 Important stories he thinks the public needs to know? she said
witheringly. I could manure my garden with the contents of that rag.
Well, this is your chance to raise the tone of it a bit, isnt it? said
Hermione pleasantly. Luna says her fathers quite happy to take
Harrys interview. Thats wholl be publishing it.
Rita stared at them both for a moment and then let out a great
whoop of laughter.
The Quibbler! she said, cackling. You think people will take him
seriously if hes published in The Quibbler?
Some people wont, said Hermione in a level voice. But the
Daily Prophets version of the Azkaban breakout had some gaping
holes in it. I think a lot of people will be wondering whether there isnt
a better explanation of what happened, and if theres an alternative
story available, even if it is published in a  she glanced sideways at
Luna, in a  well, an unusual magazine  I think they might be
rather keen to read it.
Rita did not say anything for a while, but eyed Hermione shrewdly,
her head a little to one side.


THE BEETLE AT BAY
All right, lets say for a moment Ill do it, she said abruptly. What
kind of fee am I going to get?
I dont think Daddy exactly pays people to write for the maga
zine, said Luna dreamily. They do it because its an honor, and, of
course, to see their names in print.
Rita Skeeter looked as though the taste of Stinksap was strong in
her mouth again as she rounded on Hermione. Im supposed to do
this for free?
Well, yes, said Hermione calmly, taking a sip of her drink. Other
wise, as you very well know, I will inform the authorities that you are
an unregistered Animagus. Of course, the Prophet might give you
rather a lot for an insiders account of life in Azkaban. . . .
Rita looked as though she would have liked nothing better than to
seize the paper umbrella sticking out of Hermiones drink and thrust
it up her nose.
I dont suppose Ive got any choice, have I? said Rita, her voice
shaking slightly. She opened her crocodile bag once more, withdrew a
piece of parchment, and raised her QuickQuotes Quill.
Daddy will be pleased, said Luna brightly. A muscle twitched in
Ritas jaw.
Okay, Harry? said Hermione, turning to him. Ready to tell the
public the truth?
I suppose, said Harry, watching Rita balancing the Quick
Quotes Quill at the ready on the parchment between them.
Fire away, then, Rita, said Hermione serenely, fishing a cherry
out of the bottom of her glass.


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y  S I X
SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
L
una said vaguely that she did not know how soon Ritas interview
with Harry would appear in The Quibbler, that her father was ex
pecting a lovely long article on recent sightings of CrumpleHorned
Snorkacks. And, of course, thatll be a very important story, so
Harrys might have to wait for the following issue, said Luna.
Harry had not found it an easy experience to talk about the night
when Voldemort had returned. Rita had pressed him for every little
detail, and he had given her everything he could remember, knowing
that this was his one big opportunity to tell the world the truth. He
wondered how people would react to the story. He guessed that it
would confirm a lot of people in the view that he was completely in
sane, not least because his story would be appearing alongside utter
rubbish about CrumpleHorned Snorkacks. But the breakout of Bel
latrix Lestrange and her fellow Death Eaters had given Harry a burn
ing desire to do something, whether it worked or not. . . .
Cant wait to see what Umbridge thinks of you going public, said
Dean, sounding awestruck at dinner on Monday night. Seamus was


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
shoveling down large amounts of chickenandham pie on Deans
other side, but Harry knew he was listening.
Its the right thing to do, Harry, said Neville, who was sitting op
posite him. He was rather pale, but went on in a low voice, It must
have been . . . tough . . . talking about it. . . . Was it?
Yeah, mumbled Harry, but people have got to know what
Voldemorts capable of, havent they?
Thats right, said Neville, nodding, and his Death Eaters too . . .
People should know. . . .
Neville left his sentence hanging and returned to his baked potato.
Seamus looked up, but when he caught Harrys eye he looked quickly
back at his plate again. After a while Dean, Seamus, and Neville de
parted for the common room, leaving Harry and Hermione at the
table waiting for Ron, who had not yet had dinner because of Quid
ditch practice.
Cho Chang walked into the hall with her friend Marietta. Harrys
stomach gave an unpleasant lurch, but she did not look over at the
Gryffindor table and sat down with her back to him.
Oh, I forgot to ask you, said Hermione brightly, glancing over at
the Ravenclaw table, what happened on your date with Cho? How
come you were back so early?
Er . . . well, it was . . . said Harry, pulling a dish of rhubarb
crumble toward him and helping himself to seconds, a complete fi
asco, now you mention it.
And he told her what had happened in Madam Puddifoots Tea
Shop.
. . . so then, he finished several minutes later, as the final bit of
crumble disappeared, she jumps up, right, and says Ill see you
around, Harry, and runs out of the place! He put down his spoon
and looked at Hermione. I mean, what was all that about? What was
going on?


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
Hermione glanced over at the back of Chos head and sighed. Oh,
Harry, she said sadly. Well, Im sorry, but you were a bit tactless.
Me, tactless? said Harry, outraged. One minute we were getting
on fine, next minute she was telling me that Roger Davies asked her
out, and how she used to go and snog Cedric in that stupid tea
shop  how was I supposed to feel about that?
Well, you see, said Hermione, with the patient air of one ex
plaining that one plus one equals two to an overemotional toddler,
you shouldnt have told her that you wanted to meet me halfway
through your date.
But, but, spluttered Harry, but  you told me to meet you at
twelve and to bring her along, how was I supposed to do that without
telling her  ?
You should have told her differently said Hermione, still with
that maddeningly patient air. You should have said it was really an
noying, but Id made you promise to come along to the Three Broom
sticks, and you really didnt want to go, youd much rather spend the
whole day with her, but unfortunately you thought you really ought
to meet me and would she please, please come along with you, and
hopefully youd be able to get away more quickly? And it might have
been a good idea to mention how ugly you think I am too, Hermi
one added as an afterthought.
But I dont think youre ugly, said Harry, bemused.
Hermione laughed.
Harry, youre worse than Ron. . . . Well, no, youre not, she
sighed, as Ron himself came stumping into the Hall splattered with
mud and looking grumpy. Look  you upset Cho when you said
you were going to meet me, so she tried to make you jealous. It was
her way of trying to find out how much you liked her.
Is that what she was doing? said Harry as Ron dropped onto the
bench opposite them and pulled every dish within reach toward him


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
self. Well, wouldnt it have been easier if shed just asked me whether
I liked her better than you?
Girls dont often ask questions like that, said Hermione.
Well, they should! said Harry forcefully. Then I couldve just
told her I fancy her, and she wouldnt have had to get herself all
worked up again about Cedric dying!
Im not saying what she did was sensible, said Hermione, as
Ginny joined them, just as muddy as Ron and looking equally dis
gruntled. Im just trying to make you see how she was feeling at the
time.
You should write a book, Ron told Hermione as he cut up his
potatoes, translating mad things girls do so boys can understand
them.
Yeah, said Harry fervently, looking over at the Ravenclaw table.
Cho had just got up still not looking at him, she left the Great Hall.
Feeling rather depressed, he looked back at Ron and Ginny. So, how
was Quidditch practice?
It was a nightmare, said Ron in a surly voice.
Oh come on, said Hermione, looking at Ginny, Im sure it
wasnt that 
Yes, it was, said Ginny. It was appalling. Angelina was nearly in
tears by the end of it.
Ron and Ginny went off for baths after dinner Harry and Her
mione returned to the busy Gryffindor common room and their usual
pile of homework. Harry had been struggling with a new star chart for
Astronomy for half an hour when Fred and George turned up.
Ron and Ginny not here? asked Fred, looking around as he
pulled up a chair and, when Harry shook his head, he said, Good.
We were watching their practice. Theyre going to be slaughtered.
Theyre complete rubbish without us.
Come on, Ginnys not bad, said George fairly, sitting down next


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
to Fred. Actually, I dunno how she got so good, seeing how we never
let her play with us. . . .
Shes been breaking into your broom shed in the garden since the
age of six and taking each of your brooms out in turn when you
werent looking, said Hermione from behind her tottering pile of An
cient Rune books.
Oh, said George, looking mildly impressed. Well  thatd ex
plain it.
Has Ron saved a goal yet? asked Hermione, peering over the top
of Magical Hieroglyphs and Logograms.
Well, he can do it if he doesnt think anyones watching him, said
Fred, rolling his eyes. So all we have to do is ask the crowd to turn
their backs and talk among themselves every time the Quaffle goes up
his end on Saturday.
He got up again and moved restlessly to the window, staring out
across the dark grounds.
You know, Quidditch was about the only thing in this place worth
staying for.
Hermione cast him a stern look.
Youve got exams coming!
Told you already, were not fussed about N.E.W.T.s, said Fred.
The Snackboxes are ready to roll, we found out how to get rid of
those boils, just a couple of drops of murtlap essence sorts them, Lee
put us onto it. . . .
George yawned widely and looked out disconsolately at the cloudy
night sky.
I dunno if I even want to watch this match. If Zacharias Smith
beats us I might have to kill myself.
Kill him, more like, said Fred firmly.
Thats the trouble with Quidditch, said Hermione absentmind
edly, once again bent over her Rune translation, it creates all this bad
feeling and tension between the Houses.


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
She looked up to find her copy of Spellmans Syllabary and caught
Fred, George, and Harry looking at her with expressions of mingled
disgust and incredulity on their faces.
Well, it does! she said impatiently. Its only a game, isnt it?
Hermione, said Harry, shaking his head, youre good on feelings
and stuff, but you just dont understand about Quidditch.
Maybe not, she said darkly, returning to her translation again, but
at least my happiness doesnt depend on Rons goalkeeping ability.
And though Harry would rather have jumped off the Astronomy
Tower than admit it to her, by the time he had watched the game the
following Saturday he would have given any number of Galleons not
to care about Quidditch either.
The very best thing you could say about the match was that it was
short the Gryffindor spectators had to endure only twentytwo min
utes of agony. It was hard to say what the worst thing was Harry
thought it was a closerun contest between Rons fourteenth failed save,
Sloper missing the Bludger but hitting Angelina in the mouth with his
bat, and Kirke shrieking and falling backward off his broom as Zacha
rias Smith zoomed at him carrying the Quaffle. The miracle was that
Gryffindor only lost by ten points Ginny managed to snatch the Snitch
from right under Hufflepuff Seeker Summerbys nose, so that the final
score was two hundred and forty versus two hundred and thirty.
Good catch, Harry told Ginny back in the common room, where
the atmosphere closely resembled that of a particularly dismal funeral.
I was lucky, she shrugged. It wasnt a very fast Snitch and Sum
merbys got a cold, he sneezed and closed his eyes at exactly the wrong
moment. Anyway, once youre back on the team 
Ginny, Ive got a lifelong ban.
Youre banned as long as Umbridge is in the school, Ginny cor
rected him. Theres a difference. Anyway, once youre back, I think
Ill try out for Chaser. Angelina and Alicia are both leaving next year
and I prefer goalscoring to Seeking anyway.


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
Harry looked over at Ron, who was hunched in a corner, staring at
his knees, a bottle of butterbeer clutched in his hand.
Angelina still wont let him resign, Ginny said, as though reading
Harrys mind. She says she knows hes got it in him.
Harry liked Angelina for the faith she was showing in Ron, but at
the same time thought it would really be kinder to let him leave the
team. Ron had left the pitch to another booming chorus of Weasley
Is Our King sung with great gusto by the Slytherins, who were now
favorites to win the Quidditch Cup.
Fred and George wandered over.
I havent got the heart to take the mickey out of him, even, said
Fred, looking over at Rons crumpled figure. Mind you . . . when he
missed the fourteenth . . .
He made wild motions with his arms as though doing an upright
doggypaddle.
Well, Ill save it for parties, eh?
Ron dragged himself up to bed shortly after this. Out of respect for
his feelings, Harry waited a while before going up to the dormitory
himself, so that Ron could pretend to be asleep if he wanted to. Sure
enough, when Harry finally entered the room Ron was snoring a little
too loudly to be entirely plausible.
Harry got into bed, thinking about the match. It had been im
mensely frustrating watching from the sidelines. He was quite im
pressed by Ginnys performance but he felt that if he had been playing
he could have caught the Snitch sooner. . . . There had been a mo
ment when it had been fluttering near Kirkes ankle if she hadnt hes
itated, she might have been able to scrape a win for Gryffindor. . . .
Umbridge had been sitting a few rows below Harry and Hermione.
Once or twice she had turned squatly in her seat to look at him, her
wide toads mouth stretched in what he thought had been a gloating
smile. The memory of it made him feel hot with anger as he lay there


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
in the dark. After a few minutes, however, he remembered that he was
supposed to be emptying his mind of all emotion before he slept, as
Snape kept instructing him at the end of every Occlumency lesson.
He tried for a moment or two, but the thought of Snape on top of
memories of Umbridge merely increased his sense of grumbling re
sentment, and he found himself focusing instead on how much he
loathed the pair of them. Slowly, Rons snores died away, replaced by
the sound of deep, slow breathing. It took Harry much longer to get
to sleep his body was tired, but it took his brain a long time to close
down.
He dreamed that Neville and Professor Sprout were waltzing
around the Room of Requirement while Professor McGonagall
played the bagpipes. He watched them happily for a while, then de
cided to go and find the other members of the D.A. . . .
But when he left the room he found himself facing, not the tapes
try of Barnabas the Barmy, but a torch burning in its bracket on a
stone wall. He turned his head slowly to the left. There, at the far end
of the windowless passage, was a plain, black door.
He walked toward it with a sense of mounting excitement. He had
the strangest feeling that this time he was going to get lucky at last,
and find the way to open it. . . . He was feet from it and saw with a
leap of excitement that there was a glowing strip of faint blue light
down the righthand side. . . . The door was ajar. . . . He stretched
out his hand to push it wide and 
Ron gave a loud, rasping, genuine snore, and Harry awoke abruptly
with his right hand stretched in front of him in the darkness, to open
a door that was hundreds of miles away. He let it fall with a feeling of
mingled disappointment and guilt. He knew he should not have seen
the door, but at the same time, felt so consumed with curiosity about
what was behind it that he could not help feeling annoyed with Ron.
. . . If he could have saved his snore for just another minute . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX



They entered the Great Hall for breakfast at exactly the same moment
as the post owls on Monday morning. Hermione was not the only
person eagerly awaiting her Daily Prophet Nearly everyone was eager
for more news about the escaped Death Eaters, who, despite many re
ported sightings, had still not been caught. She gave the delivery owl
a Knut and unfolded the newspaper eagerly while Harry helped him
self to orange juice as he had only received one note during the entire
year he was sure, when the first owl landed with a thud in front of
him, that it had made a mistake.
Whore you after? he asked it, languidly removing his orange
juice from underneath its beak and leaning forward to see the recipi
ents name and address
Harry Potter
Great Hall
Hogwarts School
Frowning, he made to take the letter from the owl, but before he
could do so, three, four, five more owls had fluttered down beside it
and were jockeying for position, treading in the butter, knocking over
the salt, and each attempting to give him their letters first.
Whats going on? Ron asked in amazement, as the whole of
Gryffindor table leaned forward to watch as another seven owls
landed amongst the first ones, screeching, hooting, and flapping their
wings.
Harry! said Hermione breathlessly, plunging her hands into the
feathery mass and pulling out a screech owl bearing a long, cylindrical
package. I think I know what this means  open this one first!
Harry ripped off the brown packaging. Out rolled a tightly furled
copy of Marchs edition of The Quibbler. He unrolled it to see his own


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
face grinning sheepishly at him from the front cover. In large red let
ters across his picture were the words
HARRY POTTER SPEAKS OUT AT LAST
THE TRUTH ABOUT HEWHOMUSTNOTBENAMED
AND THE NIGHT I SAW HIM RETURN
Its good, isnt it? said Luna, who had drifted over to the
Gryffindor table and now squeezed herself onto the bench between
Fred and Ron. It came out yesterday, I asked Dad to send you a free
copy. I expect all these, she waved a hand at the assembled owls still
scrabbling around on the table in front of Harry, are letters from
readers.
Thats what I thought, said Hermione eagerly, Harry, dyou
mind if we  ?
Help yourself, said Harry, feeling slightly bemused.
Ron and Hermione both started ripping open envelopes.
This ones from a bloke who thinks youre off your rocker, said
Ron, glancing down his letter. Ah well . . .
This woman recommends you try a good course of Shock Spells at
St. Mungos, said Hermione, looking disappointed and crumpling
up a second.
This one looks okay, though, said Harry slowly, scanning a long
letter from a witch in Paisley. Hey, she says she believes me!
This ones in two minds, said Fred, who had joined in the letter
opening with enthusiasm. Says you dont come across as a mad per
son, but he really doesnt want to believe YouKnowWhos back so he
doesnt know what to think now. . . . Blimey, what a waste of parch
ment . . .
Heres another one youve convinced, Harry! said Hermione ex
citedly.  Having read your side of the story I am forced to the con
clusion that the Daily Prophet has treated you very unfairly. . . . Little


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
though I want to think that HeWhoMustNotBeNamed has re
turned, I am forced to accept that you are telling the truth. . . . Oh
this is wonderful!
Another one who thinks youre barking, said Ron, throwing a
crumpled letter over his shoulder, but this one says youve got her
converted, and she now thinks youre a real hero  shes put in a pho
tograph too  wow 
What is going on here? said a falsely sweet, girlish voice.
Harry looked up with his hands full of envelopes. Professor Um
bridge was standing behind Fred and Luna, her bulging toads eyes
scanning the mess of owls and letters on the table in front of Harry.
Behind her he saw many of the students watching them avidly.
Why have you got all these letters, Mr. Potter? she asked slowly.
Is that a crime now? said Fred loudly. Getting mail?
Be careful, Mr. Weasley, or I shall have to put you in detention,
said Umbridge. Well, Mr. Potter?
Harry hesitated, but he did not see how he could keep what he had
done quiet it was surely only a matter of time before a copy of The
Quibbler came to Umbridges attention.
People have written to me because I gave an interview, said
Harry. About what happened to me last June.
For some reason he glanced up at the staff table as he said this. He
had the strangest feeling that Dumbledore had been watching him a
second before, but when he looked, Dumbledore seemed to be ab
sorbed in conversation with Professor Flitwick.
An interview? repeated Umbridge, her voice thinner and higher
than ever. What do you mean?
I mean a reporter asked me questions and I answered them, said
Harry. Here 
And he threw the copy of The Quibbler at her. She caught it and
stared down at the cover. Her pale, doughy face turned an ugly, patchy
violet.


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
When did you do this? she asked, her voice trembling slightly.
Last Hogsmeade weekend, said Harry.
She looked up at him, incandescent with rage, the magazine shak
ing in her stubby fingers.
There will be no more Hogsmeade trips for you, Mr. Potter, she
whispered. How you dare . . . how you could . . . She took a deep
breath. I have tried again and again to teach you not to tell lies. The
message, apparently, has still not sunk in. Fifty points from Gryffin
dor and another weeks worth of detentions.
She stalked away, clutching The Quibbler to her chest, the eyes of
many students following her.
By midmorning enormous signs had been put up all over the
school, not just on House notice boards, but in the corridors and class
rooms too.
 by order of 
The High Inquisitor of Hogwarts
Any student found in possession of the magazine The Quib
bler will be expelled.
The above is in accordance with
Educational Decree Number Twentyseven.
Signed
high inquisitor
For some reason, every time Hermione caught sight of one of these
signs she beamed with pleasure.
What exactly are you so happy about? Harry asked her.


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
Oh Harry, dont you see? Hermione breathed. If she could have
done one thing to make absolutely sure that every single person in this
school will read your interview, it was banning it!
And it seemed that Hermione was quite right. By the end of that
day, though Harry had not seen so much as a corner of The Quibbler
anywhere in the school, the whole place seemed to be quoting the in
terview at each other Harry heard them whispering about it as they
queued up outside classes, discussing it over lunch and in the back of
lessons, while Hermione even reported that every occupant of the cu
bicles in the girls toilets had been talking about it when she nipped in
there before Ancient Runes.
And then they spotted me, and obviously they know I know you,
so they were bombarding me with questions, Hermione told Harry,
her eyes shining, and Harry, I think they believe you, I really do, I
think youve finally got them convinced!
Meanwhile Professor Umbridge was stalking the school, stopping
students at random and demanding that they turn out their books
and pockets. Harry knew she was looking for copies of The Quibbler,
but the students were several steps ahead of her. The pages carrying
Harrys interview had been bewitched to resemble extracts from text
books if anyone but themselves read it, or else wiped magically blank
until they wanted to peruse it again. Soon it seemed that every single
person in the school had read it.
The teachers were, of course, forbidden from mentioning the in
terview by Educational Decree Number Twentysix, but they found
ways to express their feelings about it all the same. Professor Sprout
awarded Gryffindor twenty points when Harry passed her a watering
can a beaming Professor Flitwick pressed a box of squeaking sugar
mice on him at the end of Charms, said Shh! and hurried away and
Professor Trelawney broke into hysterical sobs during Divination and
announced to the startled class, and a very disapproving Umbridge,
that Harry was not going to suffer an early death after all, but would


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
live to a ripe old age, become Minister of Magic, and have twelve
children.
But what made Harry happiest was Cho catching up with him as
he was hurrying along to Transfiguration the next day. Before he knew
what had happened her hand was in his and she was breathing in his
ear, Im really, really sorry. That interview was so brave . . . it made
me cry.
He was sorry to hear she had shed even more tears over it, but very
glad they were on speaking terms again, and even more pleased when
she gave him a swift kiss on the cheek and hurried off again. And un
believably, no sooner had he arrived outside Transfiguration than
something just as good happened Seamus stepped out of the queue to
face him.
I just wanted to say, he mumbled, squinting at Harrys left knee,
I believe you. And Ive sent a copy of that magazine to me mam.
If anything more was needed to complete Harrys happiness, it was
Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyles reactions. He saw them with their heads
together later that afternoon in the library, together with a weedy
looking boy Hermione whispered was called Theodore Nott. They
looked around at Harry as he browsed the shelves for the book he
needed on Partial Vanishment, and Goyle cracked his knuckles threat
eningly and Malfoy whispered something undoubtedly malevolent to
Crabbe. Harry knew perfectly well why they were acting like this He
had named all of their fathers as Death Eaters.
And the best bit is, whispered Hermione gleefully as they left the
library, they cant contradict you, because they cant admit theyve
read the article!
To cap it all, Luna told him over dinner that no copy of The Quib
bler had ever sold out faster.
Dads reprinting! she told Harry, her eyes popping excitedly. He
cant believe it, he says people seem even more interested in this than
the CrumpleHorned Snorkacks!


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
Harry was a hero in the Gryffindor common room that night dar
ingly, Fred and George had put an Enlargement Charm on the front
cover of The Quibbler and hung it on the wall, so that Harrys giant
head gazed down upon the proceedings, occasionally saying things
like The Ministry are morons and Eat dung, Umbridge in a
booming voice. Hermione did not find this very amusing she said it
interfered with her concentration, and ended up going to bed early
out of irritation. Harry had to admit that the poster was not quite as
funny after an hour or two, especially when the talking spell had
started to wear off, so that it merely shouted disconnected words like
Dung and Umbridge at more and more frequent intervals in a
progressively higher voice. In fact it started to make his head ache and
his scar began prickling uncomfortably again. To disappointed moans
from the many people who were sitting around him, asking him to re
live his interview for the umpteenth time, he announced that he too
needed an early night.
The dormitory was empty when he reached it. He rested his fore
head for a moment against the cool glass of the window beside his
bed it felt soothing against his scar. Then he undressed and got into
bed, wishing his headache would go away. He also felt slightly sick.
He rolled over onto his side, closed his eyes, and fell asleep almost at
once. . . .
He was standing in a dark, curtained room lit by a single branch of
candles. His hands were clenched on the back of a chair in front of
him. They were longfingered and white as though they had not seen
sunlight for years and looked like large, pale spiders against the dark
velvet of the chair.
Beyond the chair, in a pool of light cast upon the floor by the can
dles, knelt a man in black robes.
I have been badly advised, it seems, said Harry, in a high, cold
voice that pulsed with anger.
Master, I crave your pardon. . . . croaked the man kneeling on


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
the floor. The back of his head glimmered in the candlelight. He
seemed to be trembling.
I do not blame you, Rookwood, said Harry in that cold, cruel
voice.
He relinquished his grip upon the chair and walked around it,
closer to the man cowering upon the floor, until he stood directly over
him in the darkness, looking down from a far greater height than
usual.
You are sure of your facts, Rookwood? asked Harry.
Yes, My Lord, yes . . . I used to work in the department after 
after all. . . .
Avery told me Bode would be able to remove it.
Bode could never have taken it, Master. . . . Bode would have
known he could not. . . . Undoubtedly that is why he fought so hard
against Malfoys Imperius Curse. . . .
Stand up, Rookwood, whispered Harry.
The kneeling man almost fell over in his haste to obey. His face was
pockmarked the scars were thrown into relief by the candlelight. He
remained a little stooped when standing, as though halfway through a
bow, and he darted terrified looks up at Harrys face.
You have done well to tell me this, said Harry. Very well . . . I
have wasted months on fruitless schemes, it seems. . . . But no matter
. . . We begin again, from now. You have Lord Voldemorts gratitude,
Rookwood. . . .
My Lord . . . yes, My Lord, gasped Rookwood, his voice hoarse
with relief.
I shall need your help. I shall need all the information you can give
me.
Of course, My Lord, of course . . . anything . . .
Very well . . . you may go. Send Avery to me.
Rookwood scurried backward, bowing, and disappeared through a
door.


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
Left alone in the dark room, Harry turned toward the wall. A
cracked, agespotted mirror hung on the wall in the shadows. Harry
moved toward it. His reflection grew larger and clearer in the darkness.
. . . A face whiter than a skull . . . red eyes with slits for pupils . . .
NOOOOOOOOO!
What? yelled a voice nearby.
Harry flailed around madly, became entangled in the hangings, and
fell out of his bed. For a few seconds he did not know where he was
he was convinced that he was about to see the white, skulllike face
looming at him out of the dark again, then Rons voice spoke very
near to him.
Will you stop acting like a maniac, and I can get you out of here!
Ron wrenched the hangings apart, and Harry stared up at him in
the moonlight, as he lay flat on his back, his scar searing with pain.
Ron looked as though he had just been getting ready for bed one arm
was out of his robes.
Has someone been attacked again? asked Ron, pulling Harry
roughly to his feet. Is it Dad? Is it that snake?
No  everyones fine  gasped Harry, whose forehead felt as
though it was on fire again. Well . . . Avery isnt. . . . Hes in trouble.
. . . He gave him the wrong information. . . . Hes really angry. . . .
Harry groaned and sank, shaking, onto his bed, rubbing his scar.
But Rookwoods going to help him now. . . . Hes on the right
track again. . . .
What are you talking about? said Ron, sounding scared. Dyou
mean . . . did you just see YouKnowWho?
I was YouKnowWho, said Harry, and he stretched out his
hands in the darkness and held them up to his face to check that they
were no longer deathly white and longfingered. He was with Rook
wood, hes one of the Death Eaters who escaped from Azkaban, re
member? Rookwoods just told him Bode couldnt have done it. . . .


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
Done what?
Remove something. . . . He said Bode would have known he
couldnt have done it. . . . Bode was under the Imperius Curse. . . . I
think he said Malfoys dad put it on him. . . .
Bode was bewitched to remove something? Ron said. But 
Harry, thats got to be 
The weapon, Harry finished the sentence for him. I know.
The dormitory door opened Dean and Seamus came in. Harry
swung his legs back into bed. He did not want to look as though any
thing odd had just happened, seeing as Seamus had only just stopped
thinking Harry was a nutter.
Did you say, murmured Ron, putting his head close to Harrys on
the pretense of helping himself to water from the jug on his bedside
table, that you were YouKnowWho?
Yeah, said Harry quietly.
Ron took an unnecessarily large gulp of water. Harry saw it spill
over his chin onto his chest.
Harry, he said, as Dean and Seamus clattered around noisily,
pulling off their robes, and talking, youve got to tell 
I havent got to tell anyone, said Harry shortly. I wouldnt have
seen it at all if I could do Occlumency. Im supposed to have learned
to shut this stuff out. Thats what they want.
By they he meant Dumbledore. He got back into bed and rolled
over onto his side with his back to Ron and after a while he heard Rons
mattress creak as he lay back down too. His scar began to burn he bit
hard on his pillow to stop himself making a noise. Somewhere, he
knew, Avery was being punished. . . .
Harry and Ron waited until break next morning to tell Hermione ex
actly what had happened. They wanted to be absolutely sure they
could not be overheard. Standing in their usual corner of the cool and


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
breezy courtyard, Harry told her every detail of the dream he could
remember. When he had finished, she said nothing at all for a few
moments, but stared with a kind of painful intensity at Fred and
George, who were both headless and selling their magical hats from
under their cloaks on the other side of the yard.
So thats why they killed him, she said quietly, withdrawing her
gaze from Fred and George at last. When Bode tried to steal this
weapon, something funny happened to him. I think there must be
defensive spells on it, or around it, to stop people from touching it.
Thats why he was in St. Mungos, his brain had gone all funny and he
couldnt talk. But remember what the Healer told us? He was recov
ering. And they couldnt risk him getting better, could they? I mean,
the shock of whatever happened when he touched that weapon prob
ably made the Imperius Curse lift. Once hed got his voice back, hed
explain what hed been doing, wouldnt he? They would have known
hed been sent to steal the weapon. Of course, it would have been easy
for Lucius Malfoy to put the curse on him. Never out of the Ministry,
is he?
He was even hanging around that day I had my hearing, said
Harry. In the  hang on . . . he said slowly. He was in the De
partment of Mysteries corridor that day! Your dad said he was proba
bly trying to sneak down and find out what happened in my hearing,
but what if 
Sturgis, gasped Hermione, looking thunderstruck.
Sorry? said Ron, looking bewildered.
Sturgis Podmore, said Hermione, breathlessly. Arrested for try
ing to get through a door. Lucius Malfoy got him too. I bet he did it
the day you saw him there, Harry. Sturgis had Moodys Invisibility
Cloak, right? So what if he was standing guard by the door, invisible,
and Malfoy heard him move, or guessed he was there, or just did the
Imperius Curse on the off chance that a guard was there? So when
Sturgis next had an opportunity  probably when it was his turn on


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
guard duty again  he tried to get into the department to steal the
weapon for Voldemort  Ron, be quiet  but he got caught and
sent to Azkaban. . . .
She gazed at Harry.
And now Rookwoods told Voldemort how to get the weapon?
I didnt hear all the conversation, but thats what it sounded like,
said Harry. Rookwood used to work there. . . . Maybe Voldemortll
send Rookwood to do it?
Hermione nodded, apparently still lost in thought. Then, quite
abruptly, she said, But you shouldnt have seen this at all, Harry.
What? he said, taken aback.
Youre supposed to be learning how to close your mind to this sort
of thing, said Hermione, suddenly stern.
I know I am, said Harry. But 
Well, I think we should just try and forget what you saw, said
Hermione firmly. And you ought to put in a bit more effort on your
Occlumency from now on.
Harry was so angry with her that he did not talk to her for the rest
of the day, which proved to be another bad one. When people were
not discussing the escaped Death Eaters in the corridors today, they
were laughing at Gryffindors abysmal performance in their match
against Hufflepuff the Slytherins were singing Weasley Is Our King
so loudly and frequently that by sundown Filch had banned it from
the corridors out of sheer irritation.
The week did not improve as it progressed Harry received two
more Ds in Potions, was still on tenterhooks that Hagrid might get
the sack, and could not stop himself from dwelling on the dream in
which he had seen Voldemort, though he did not bring it up with Ron
and Hermione again because he did not want another tellingoff from
Hermione. He wished very much that he could have talked to Sirius
about it, but that was out of the question, so he tried to push the mat
ter to the back of his mind.


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
Unfortunately, the back of his mind was no longer the secure place
it had once been.
Get up, Potter.
A couple of weeks after his dream of Rookwood, Harry was to be
found, yet again, kneeling on the floor of Snapes office, trying to clear
his head. He had just been forced, yet again, to relive a stream of very
early memories he had not even realized he still had, most of them
concerning humiliations Dudley and his gang had inflicted upon him
in primary school.
That last memory, said Snape. What was it?
I dont know, said Harry, getting wearily to his feet. He was find
ing it increasingly difficult to disentangle separate memories from the
rush of images and sound that Snape kept calling forth. You mean
the one where my cousin tried to make me stand in the toilet?
No, said Snape softly. I mean the one concerning a man kneel
ing in the middle of a darkened room. . . .
Its . . . nothing, said Harry.
Snapes dark eyes bored into Harrys. Remembering what Snape
had said about eye contact being crucial to Legilimency, Harry
blinked and looked away.
How do that man and that room come to be inside your head,
Potter? said Snape.
It  said Harry, looking everywhere but at Snape, it was  just
a dream I had.
A dream, repeated Snape.
There was a pause during which Harry stared fixedly at a large dead
frog suspended in a purple liquid in its jar.
You do know why we are here, dont you, Potter? said Snape in a
low, dangerous voice. You do know why I am giving up my evenings
to this tedious job?
Yes, said Harry stiffly.
Remind me why we are here, Potter.


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
So I can learn Occlumency, said Harry, now glaring at a dead eel.
Correct, Potter. And dim though you may be  Harry looked
back at Snape, hating him  I would have thought that after two
months worth of lessons you might have made some progress. How
many other dreams about the Dark Lord have you had?
Just that one, lied Harry.
Perhaps, said Snape, his dark, cold eyes narrowing slightly, per
haps you actually enjoy having these visions and dreams, Potter.
Maybe they make you feel special  important?
No, they dont, said Harry, his jaw set and his fingers clenched
tightly around the handle of his wand.
That is just as well, Potter, said Snape coldly, because you are
neither special nor important, and it is not up to you to find out what
the Dark Lord is saying to his Death Eaters.
No  thats your job, isnt it? Harry shot at him.
He had not meant to say it it had burst out of him in temper. For
a long moment they stared at each other, Harry convinced he had
gone too far. But there was a curious, almost satisfied expression on
Snapes face when he answered.
Yes, Potter, he said, his eyes glinting. That is my job. Now, if you
are ready, we will start again. . . .
He raised his wand. One  two  three  Legilimens!
A hundred dementors were swooping toward Harry across the lake
in the grounds. . . . He screwed up his face in concentration. . . .
They were coming closer. . . . He could see the dark holes beneath
their hoods . . . yet he could also see Snape standing in front of him,
his eyes fixed upon Harrys face, muttering under his breath. . . . And
somehow, Snape was growing clearer, and the dementors were grow
ing fainter . . .
Harry raised his own wand.
Protego!
Snape staggered his wand flew upward, away from Harry  and


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
suddenly Harrys mind was teeming with memories that were not
his  a hooknosed man was shouting at a cowering woman, while a
small darkhaired boy cried in a corner. . . . A greasyhaired teenager
sat alone in a dark bedroom, pointing his wand at the ceiling, shoot
ing down flies. . . . A girl was laughing as a scrawny boy tried to
mount a bucking broomstick 
ENOUGH!
Harry felt as though he had been pushed hard in the chest he took
several staggering steps backward, hit some of the shelves covering
Snapes walls and heard something crack. Snape was shaking slightly,
very white in the face.
The back of Harrys robes were damp. One of the jars behind him
had broken when he fell against it the pickled slimy thing within was
swirling in its draining potion.
Reparo! hissed Snape, and the jar sealed itself once more. Well,
Potter . . . that was certainly an improvement. . . . Panting slightly,
Snape straightened the Pensieve in which he had again stored some of
his thoughts before starting the lesson, almost as though checking that
they were still there. I dont remember telling you to use a Shield
Charm . . . but there is no doubt that it was effective. . . .
Harry did not speak he felt that to say anything might be danger
ous. He was sure he had just broken into Snapes memories, that he had
just seen scenes from Snapes childhood, and it was unnerving to think
that the crying little boy who had watched his parents shouting was ac
tually standing in front of him with such loathing in his eyes. . . .
Lets try again, shall we? said Snape.
Harry felt a thrill of dread He was about to pay for what had just
happened, he was sure of it. They moved back into position with the
desk between them, Harry feeling he was going to find it much harder
to empty his mind this time. . . .
On the count of three, then, said Snape, raising his wand once
more. One  two 


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
Harry did not have time to gather himself together and attempt to
clear his mind, for Snape had already cried Legilimens!
He was hurtling along the corridor toward the Department of Mys
teries, past the blank stone walls, past the torches  the plain black
door was growing ever larger he was moving so fast he was going to
collide with it, he was feet from it and he could see that chink of faint
blue light again 
The door had flown open! He was through it at last, inside a black
walled, blackfloored circular room lit with blueflamed candles, and
there were more doors all around him  he needed to go on  but
which door ought he to take  ?
POTTER!
Harry opened his eyes. He was flat on his back again with no
memory of having gotten there he was also panting as though he re
ally had run the length of the Department of Mysteries corridor, really
had sprinted through the black door and found the circular room. . . .
Explain yourself! said Snape, who was standing over him, look
ing furious.
I . . . dunno what happened, said Harry truthfully, standing up.
There was a lump on the back of his head from where he had hit the
ground and he felt feverish. Ive never seen that before. I mean, I told
you, Ive dreamed about the door . . . but its never opened before. . . .
You are not working hard enough!
For some reason, Snape seemed even angrier than he had done two
minutes before, when Harry had seen into his own memories.
You are lazy and sloppy, Potter, it is small wonder that the Dark
Lord 
Can you tell me something, sir? said Harry, firing up again.
Why do you call Voldemort the Dark Lord, Ive only ever heard
Death Eaters call him that 
Snape opened his mouth in a snarl  and a woman screamed from
somewhere outside the room.


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
Snapes head jerked upward he was gazing at the ceiling.
What the  ? he muttered.
Harry could hear a muffled commotion coming from what he
thought might be the entrance hall. Snape looked around at him,
frowning.
Did you see anything unusual on your way down here, Potter?
Harry shook his head. Somewhere above them, the woman
screamed again. Snape strode to his office door, his wand still held at
the ready, and swept out of sight. Harry hesitated for a moment, then
followed.
The screams were indeed coming from the entrance hall they grew
louder as Harry ran toward the stone steps leading up from the dun
geons. When he reached the top he found the entrance hall packed.
Students had come flooding out of the Great Hall, where dinner was
still in progress, to see what was going on. Others had crammed them
selves onto the marble staircase. Harry pushed forward through a knot
of tall Slytherins and saw that the onlookers had formed a great ring,
some of them looking shocked, others even frightened. Professor
McGonagall was directly opposite Harry on the other side of the hall
she looked as though what she was watching made her feel faintly
sick.
Professor Trelawney was standing in the middle of the entrance hall
with her wand in one hand and an empty sherry bottle in the other,
looking utterly mad. Her hair was sticking up on end, her glasses were
lopsided so that one eye was magnified more than the other her in
numerable shawls and scarves were trailing haphazardly from her
shoulders, giving the impression that she was falling apart at the
seams. Two large trunks lay on the floor beside her, one of them up
side down it looked very much as though it had been thrown down
the stairs after her. Professor Trelawney was staring, apparently terri
fied, at something Harry could not see but that seemed to be standing
at the foot of the stairs.


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
No! she shrieked. NO! This cannot be happening. . . . It cannot
. . . I refuse to accept it!
You didnt realize this was coming? said a high girlish voice,
sounding callously amused, and Harry, moving slightly to his right,
saw that Trelawneys terrifying vision was nothing other than Professor
Umbridge. Incapable though you are of predicting even tomorrows
weather, you must surely have realized that your pitiful performance
during my inspections, and lack of any improvement, would make it
inevitable you would be sacked?
You ccant! howled Professor Trelawney, tears streaming down
her face from behind her enormous lenses, you ccant sack me! Ive
bbeen here sixteen years! HHogwarts is mmy hhome!
It was your home, said Professor Umbridge, and Harry was re
volted to see the enjoyment stretching her toadlike face as she watched
Professor Trelawney sink, sobbing uncontrollably, onto one of her
trunks, until an hour ago, when the Minister of Magic countersigned
the order for your dismissal. Now kindly remove yourself from this
hall. You are embarrassing us.
But she stood and watched, with an expression of gloating enjoy
ment, as Professor Trelawney shuddered and moaned, rocking back
ward and forward on her trunk in paroxysms of grief. Harry heard a
sob to his left and looked around. Lavender and Parvati were both cry
ing silently, their arms around each other. Then he heard footsteps.
Professor McGonagall had broken away from the spectators, marched
straight up to Professor Trelawney and was patting her firmly on the
back while withdrawing a large handkerchief from within her robes.
There, there, Sibyll . . . Calm down. . . . Blow your nose on this.
. . . Its not as bad as you think, now. . . . You are not going to have to
leave Hogwarts. . . .
Oh really, Professor McGonagall? said Umbridge in a deadly
voice, taking a few steps forward. And your authority for that state
ment is . . . ?


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
That would be mine, said a deep voice.
The oak front doors had swung open. Students beside them scut
tled out of the way as Dumbledore appeared in the entrance. What he
had been doing out in the grounds Harry could not imagine, but
there was something impressive about the sight of him framed in the
doorway against an oddly misty night. Leaving the doors wide behind
him, he strode forward through the circle of onlookers toward the
place where Professor Trelawney sat, tearstained and trembling, upon
her trunk, Professor McGonagall alongside her.
Yours, Professor Dumbledore? said Umbridge with a singularly
unpleasant little laugh. Im afraid you do not understand the posi
tion. I have here  she pulled a parchment scroll from within her
robes  an Order of Dismissal signed by myself and the Minister of
Magic. Under the terms of Educational Decree Number Twentythree,
the High Inquisitor of Hogwarts has the power to inspect, place upon
probation, and sack any teacher she  that is to say, I  feel is not
performing up to the standard required by the Ministry of Magic. I
have decided that Professor Trelawney is not up to scratch. I have dis
missed her.
To Harrys very great surprise, Dumbledore continued to smile. He
looked down at Professor Trelawney, who was still sobbing and chok
ing on her trunk, and said, You are quite right, of course, Professor
Umbridge. As High Inquisitor you have every right to dismiss my
teachers. You do not, however, have the authority to send them away
from the castle. I am afraid, he went on, with a courteous little bow,
that the power to do that still resides with the headmaster, and it is
my wish that Professor Trelawney continue to live at Hogwarts.
At this, Professor Trelawney gave a wild little laugh in which a hic
cup was barely hidden.
No  no, Ill ggo, Dumbledore! I shshall lleave Hogwarts and
sseek my fortune elsewhere 


SEEN AND UNFORESEEN
No, said Dumbledore sharply. It is my wish that you remain,
Sibyll.
He turned to Professor McGonagall.
Might I ask you to escort Sibyll back upstairs, Professor
McGonagall?
Of course, said McGonagall. Up you get, Sibyll. . . .
Professor Sprout came hurrying forward out of the crowd and
grabbed Professor Trelawneys other arm. Together they guided her
past Umbridge and up the marble stairs. Professor Flitwick went scur
rying after them, his wand held out before him he squeaked, Loco
motor trunks! and Professor Trelawneys luggage rose into the air and
proceeded up the staircase after her, Professor Flitwick bringing up the
rear.
Professor Umbridge was standing stockstill, staring at Dumble
dore, who continued to smile benignly.
And what, she said in a whisper that nevertheless carried all
around the entrance hall, are you going to do with her once I appoint
a new Divination teacher who needs her lodgings?
Oh, that wont be a problem, said Dumbledore pleasantly. You
see, I have already found us a new Divination teacher, and he will pre
fer lodgings on the ground floor.
Youve found  ? said Umbridge shrilly. Youve found? Might I
remind you, Dumbledore, that under Educational Decree Twenty
two 
 the Ministry has the right to appoint a suitable candidate if 
and only if  the headmaster is unable to find one, said Dumble
dore. And I am happy to say that on this occasion I have succeeded.
May I introduce you?
He turned to face the open front doors, through which night mist
was now drifting. Harry heard hooves. There was a shocked murmur
around the hall and those nearest the doors hastily moved even farther


CHAPTER TWENTYSIX
backward, some of them tripping over in their haste to clear a path for
the newcomer.
Through the mist came a face Harry had seen once before on a
dark, dangerous night in the Forbidden Forest whiteblond hair and
astonishingly blue eyes, the head and torso of a man joined to the
palomino body of a horse.
This is Firenze, said Dumbledore happily to a thunderstruck
Umbridge. I think youll find him suitable.


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y  S E V E N
THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
I
ll bet you wish you hadnt given up Divination now, dont you,
Hermione? asked Parvati, smirking.
It was breakfast time a few days after the sacking of Professor
Trelawney, and Parvati was curling her eyelashes around her wand and
examining the effect in the back of her spoon. They were to have their
first lesson with Firenze that morning.
Not really, said Hermione indifferently, who was reading the
Daily Prophet. Ive never really liked horses.
She turned a page of the newspaper, scanning its columns.
Hes not a horse, hes a centaur! said Lavender, sounding shocked.
A gorgeous centaur . . . sighed Parvati.
Either way, hes still got four legs, said Hermione coolly. Any
way, I thought you two were all upset that Trelawney had gone?
We are! Lavender assured her. We went up to her office to see
her, we took her some daffodils  not the honking ones that Sprouts
got, nice ones. . . .
How is she? asked Harry.
Not very good, poor thing, said Lavender sympathetically. She


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
was crying and saying shed rather leave the castle forever than stay
here if Umbridge is still here, and I dont blame her. Umbridge was
horrible to her, wasnt she?
Ive got a feeling Umbridge has only just started being horrible,
said Hermione darkly.
Impossible, said Ron, who was tucking into a large plate of eggs
and bacon. She cant get any worse than shes been already.
You mark my words, shes going to want revenge on Dumbledore
for appointing a new teacher without consulting her, said Hermione,
closing the newspaper. Especially another parthuman. You saw the
look on her face when she saw Firenze. . . .
After breakfast Hermione departed for her Arithmancy class and
Harry and Ron followed Parvati and Lavender into the entrance hall,
heading for Divination.
Arent we going up to North Tower? asked Ron, looking puzzled,
as Parvati bypassed the marble staircase.
Parvati looked scornfully over her shoulder at him.
How dyou expect Firenze to climb that ladder? Were in class
room eleven now, it was on the notice board yesterday.
Classroom eleven was situated in the groundfloor corridor leading
off the entrance hall on the opposite side to the Great Hall. Harry
knew it to be one of those classrooms that were never used regularly,
and that it therefore had the slightly neglected feeling of a cupboard or
storeroom. When he entered it right behind Ron, and found him
self right in the middle of a forest clearing, he was therefore momen
tarily stunned.
What the  ?
The classroom floor had become springily mossy and trees were
growing out of it their leafy branches fanned across the ceiling and
windows, so that the room was full of slanting shafts of soft, dappled,
green light. The students who had already arrived were sitting on the
earthy floor with their backs resting against tree trunks or boulders,


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
arms wrapped around their knees or folded tightly across their chests,
looking rather nervous. In the middle of the room, where there were
no trees, stood Firenze.
Harry Potter, he said, holding out a hand when Harry entered.
Er  hi, said Harry, shaking hands with the centaur, who sur
veyed him unblinkingly through those astonishingly blue eyes but did
not smile. Er  good to see you . . .
And you, said the centaur, inclining his whiteblond head. It
was foretold that we would meet again.
Harry noticed that there was the shadow of a hoofshaped bruise
on Firenzes chest. As he turned to join the rest of the class upon the
floor, he saw that they were all looking at him with awe, apparently
deeply impressed that he was on speaking terms with Firenze, whom
they seemed to find intimidating.
When the door was closed and the last student had sat down upon
a tree stump beside the wastepaper basket, Firenze gestured around
the room.
Professor Dumbledore has kindly arranged this classroom for us,
said Firenze, when everyone had settled down, in imitation of my
natural habitat. I would have preferred to teach you in the Forbidden
Forest, which was  until Monday  my home . . . but this is not
possible.
Please  er  sir  said Parvati breathlessly, raising her hand,
why not? Weve been in there with Hagrid, were not frightened!
It is not a question of your bravery, said Firenze, but of my po
sition. I can no longer return to the forest. My herd has banished me.
Herd? said Lavender in a confused voice, and Harry knew she
was thinking of cows. What  oh! Comprehension dawned on her
face. There are more of you? she said, stunned.
Did Hagrid breed you, like the thestrals? asked Dean eagerly.
Firenze turned his head very slowly to face Dean, who seemed to
realize at once that he had said something very offensive.


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
I didnt  I meant  sorry, he finished in a hushed voice.
Centaurs are not the servants or playthings of humans, said
Firenze quietly. There was a pause, then Parvati raised her hand again.
Please, sir . . . why have the other centaurs banished you?
Because I have agreed to work for Professor Dumbledore, said
Firenze. They see this as a betrayal of our kind.
Harry remembered how, nearly four years ago, the centaur Bane
had shouted at Firenze for allowing Harry to ride to safety upon his
back, calling him a common mule. He wondered whether it had
been Bane who had kicked Firenze in the chest.
Let us begin, said Firenze. He swished his long palomino tail,
raised his hand toward the leafy canopy overhead then lowered it
slowly, and as he did so, the light in the room dimmed, so that they
now seemed to be sitting in a forest clearing by twilight, and stars
emerged upon the ceiling. There were oohs and gasps, and Ron said
audibly, Blimey!
Lie back upon the floor, said Firenze in his calm voice, and ob
serve the heavens. Here is written, for those who can see, the fortune
of our races.
Harry stretched out on his back and gazed upward at the ceiling. A
twinkling red star winked at him from overhead.
I know that you have learned the names of the planets and their
moons in Astronomy, said Firenzes calm voice, and that you have
mapped the stars progress through the heavens. Centaurs have unrav
eled the mysteries of these movements over centuries. Our findings
teach us that the future may be glimpsed in the sky above us. . . .
Professor Trelawney did Astrology with us! said Parvati excitedly,
raising her hand in front of her so that it stuck up in the air as she lay
on her back. Mars causes accidents and burns and things like that,
and when it makes an angle to Saturn, like now  she drew a right
angle in the air above her  that means that people need to be extra
careful when handling hot things 


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
That, said Firenze calmly, is human nonsense.
Parvatis hand fell limply to her side.
Trivial hurts, tiny human accidents, said Firenze, as his hooves
thudded over the mossy floor. These are of no more significance than
the scurryings of ants to the wide universe, and are unaffected by
planetary movements.
Professor Trelawney  began Parvati, in a hurt and indignant
voice.
 is a human, said Firenze simply. And is therefore blinkered
and fettered by the limitations of your kind.
Harry turned his head very slightly to look at Parvati. She looked very
offended, as did several of the people surrounding her.
Sibyll Trelawney may have Seen, I do not know, continued
Firenze, and Harry heard the swishing of his tail again as he walked up
and down before them, but she wastes her time, in the main, on the
selfflattering nonsense humans call fortunetelling. I, however, am
here to explain the wisdom of centaurs, which is impersonal and im
partial. We watch the skies for the great tides of evil or change that are
sometimes marked there. It may take ten years to be sure of what we
are seeing.
Firenze pointed to the red star directly above Harry.
In the past decade, the indications have been that Wizardkind is
living through nothing more than a brief calm between two wars.
Mars, bringer of battle, shines brightly above us, suggesting that the
fight must break out again soon. How soon, centaurs may attempt to
divine by the burning of certain herbs and leaves, by the observation
of fume and flame. . . .
It was the most unusual lesson Harry had ever attended. They did
indeed burn sage and mallowsweet there on the classroom floor, and
Firenze told them to look for certain shapes and symbols in the pun
gent fumes, but he seemed perfectly unconcerned that not one of
them could see any of the signs he described, telling them that humans


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
were hardly ever good at this, that it took centaurs years and years to
become competent, and finished by telling them that it was foolish to
put too much faith in such things anyway, because even centaurs
sometimes read them wrongly. He was nothing like any human
teacher Harry had ever had. His priority did not seem to be to teach
them what he knew, but rather to impress upon them that nothing,
not even centaurs knowledge, was foolproof.
Hes not very definite on anything, is he? said Ron in a low voice,
as they put out their mallowsweet fire. I mean, I could do with a few
more details about this war were about to have, couldnt you?
The bell rang right outside the classroom door and everyone
jumped Harry had completely forgotten that they were still inside the
castle, quite convinced that he was really in the forest. The class filed
out, looking slightly perplexed Harry and Ron were on the point of
following them when Firenze called, Harry Potter, a word, please.
Harry turned. The centaur advanced a little toward him. Ron
hesitated.
You may stay, Firenze told him. But close the door, please.
Ron hastened to obey.
Harry Potter, you are a friend of Hagrids, are you not? said the
centaur.
Yes, said Harry.
Then give him a warning from me. His attempt is not working.
He would do better to abandon it.
His attempt is not working? Harry repeated blankly.
And he would do better to abandon it, said Firenze, nodding. I
would warn Hagrid myself, but I am banished  it would be unwise
for me to go too near the forest now  Hagrid has troubles enough,
without a centaurs battle.
But  whats Hagrid attempting to do? said Harry nervously.
Firenze looked at Harry impassively.
Hagrid has recently rendered me a great service, said Firenze,


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
and he has long since earned my respect for the care he shows all liv
ing creatures. I shall not betray his secret. But he must be brought to
his senses. The attempt is not working. Tell him, Harry Potter. Good
day to you.
The happiness Harry had felt in the aftermath of The Quibbler inter
view had long since evaporated. As a dull March blurred into a squally
April, his life seemed to have become one long series of worries and
problems again.
Umbridge had continued attending all Care of Magical Creatures
lessons, so it had been very difficult to deliver Firenzes warning to Ha
grid. At last Harry had managed it by pretending he had lost his copy
of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and doubling back after
class one day. When he passed on Firenzes message, Hagrid gazed at
him for a moment through his puffy, blackened eyes, apparently taken
aback. Then he seemed to pull himself together.
Nice bloke, Firenze, he said gruffly, but he don know what hes
talkin abou on this. The attemps comin on fine.
Hagrid, whatre you up to? asked Harry seriously. Because
youve got to be careful, Umbridge has already sacked Trelawney and
if you ask me, shes on a roll. If youre doing anything you shouldnt
be 
Theres things more importan than keepin a job, said Hagrid,
though his hands shook slightly as he said this and a basin full of knarl
droppings crashed to the floor. Don worry abou me, Harry, jus get
along now, theres a good lad. . . .
Harry had no choice but to leave Hagrid mopping up the dung all
over his floor, but he felt thoroughly dispirited as he trudged back up
to the castle.
Meanwhile, as the teachers and Hermione persisted in reminding
them, the O.W.L.s were drawing ever nearer. All the fifth years were
suffering from stress to some degree, but Hannah Abbott became the


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
first to receive a Calming Draught from Madam Pomfrey after she
burst into tears during Herbology and sobbed that she was too stupid
to take exams and wanted to leave school now.
If it had not been for the D.A. lessons, Harry thought he would
have been extremely unhappy. He sometimes felt that he was living
for the hours he spent in the Room of Requirement, working hard but
thoroughly enjoying himself at the same time, swelling with pride as
he looked around at his fellow D.A. members and saw how far they
had come. Indeed, Harry sometimes wondered how Umbridge was
going to react when all the members of the D.A. received Outstand
ing in their Defense Against the Dark Arts O.W.L.s.
They had finally started work on Patronuses, which everybody had
been very keen to practice, though as Harry kept reminding them,
producing a Patronus in the middle of a brightly lit classroom when
they were not under threat was very different to producing it when
confronted by something like a dementor.
Oh, dont be such a killjoy, said Cho brightly, watching her sil
very swanshaped Patronus soar around the Room of Requirement
during their last lesson before Easter. Theyre so pretty!
Theyre not supposed to be pretty, theyre supposed to protect
you, said Harry patiently. What we really need is a boggart or some
thing thats how I learned, I had to conjure a Patronus while the bog
gart was pretending to be a dementor 
But that would be really scary! said Lavender, who was shooting
puffs of silver vapor out of the end of her wand. And I still 
cant  do it! she added angrily.
Neville was having trouble too. His face was screwed up in concen
tration, but only feeble wisps of silver smoke issued from his wand tip.
Youve got to think of something happy, Harry reminded him.
Im trying, said Neville miserably, who was trying so hard his
round face was actually shining with sweat.
Harry, I think Im doing it! yelled Seamus, who had been


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
brought along to his first ever D.A. meeting by Dean. Look  ah 
its gone. . . . But it was definitely something hairy, Harry!
Hermiones Patronus, a shining silver otter, was gamboling around
her.
They are sort of nice, arent they? she said, looking at it fondly.
The door of the Room of Requirement opened and then closed
again Harry looked around to see who had entered, but there did not
seem to be anybody there. It was a few moments before he realized
that the people close to the door had fallen silent. Next thing he knew,
something was tugging at his robes somewhere near the knee. He
looked down and saw, to his very great astonishment, Dobby the
houseelf peering up at him from beneath his usual eight hats.
Hi, Dobby! he said. What are you  whats wrong?
For the elf s eyes were wide with terror and he was shaking. The
members of the D.A. closest to Harry had fallen silent now Every
body in the room was watching Dobby. The few Patronuses people
had managed to conjure faded away into silver mist, leaving the room
looking much darker than before.
Harry Potter, sir . . . squeaked the elf, trembling from head to
foot, Harry Potter, sir . . . Dobby has come to warn you . . . but the
houseelves have been warned not to tell . . .
He ran headfirst at the wall Harry, who had some experience of
Dobbys habits of selfpunishment, made to seize him, but Dobby
merely bounced off the stone, cushioned by his eight hats. Hermione
and a few of the other girls let out squeaks of fear and sympathy.
Whats happened, Dobby? Harry asked, grabbing the elf s tiny
arm and holding him away from anything with which he might seek
to hurt himself.
Harry Potter . . . she . . . she . . .
Dobby hit himself hard on the nose with his free fist Harry seized
that too.
Whos she, Dobby?


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
But he thought he knew  surely only one she could induce
such fear in Dobby? The elf looked up at him, slightly crosseyed, and
mouthed wordlessly.
Umbridge? asked Harry, horrified.
Dobby nodded, then tried to bang his head off Harrys knees
Harry held him at bay.
What about her? Dobby  she hasnt found out about this 
about us  about the D.A.?
He read the answer in the elf s stricken face. His hands held fast by
Harry, the elf tried to kick himself and fell to the floor.
Is she coming? Harry asked quietly.
Dobby let out a howl, and began beating his bare feet hard on the
floor. Yes, Harry Potter, yes!
Harry straightened up and looked around at the motionless, terri
fied people gazing at the thrashing elf.
WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR? Harry bellowed. RUN!
They all pelted toward the exit at once, forming a scrum at the
door, then people burst through Harry could hear them sprinting
along the corridors and hoped they had the sense not to try and make
it all the way to their dormitories. It was only ten to nine, if they just
took refuge in the library or the Owlery, which were both nearer 
Harry, come on! shrieked Hermione from the center of the knot
of people now fighting to get out.
He scooped up Dobby, who was still attempting to do himself seri
ous injury, and ran with the elf in his arms to join the back of the
queue.
Dobby  this is an order  get back down to the kitchen with
the other elves, and if she asks you whether you warned me, lie and say
no! said Harry. And I forbid you to hurt yourself! he added, drop
ping the elf as he made it over the threshold at last and slamming the
door behind him.
Thank you, Harry Potter! squeaked Dobby, and he streaked off.


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
Harry glanced left and right, the others were all moving so fast that he
caught only glimpses of flying heels at either end of the corridor be
fore they vanished. He started to run right there was a boys bath
room up ahead, he could pretend hed been in there all the time if he
could just reach it 
AAARGH!
Something caught him around the ankles and he fell spectacularly,
skidding along on his front for six feet before coming to a halt. Some
one behind him was laughing. He rolled over onto his back and saw
Malfoy concealed in a niche beneath an ugly dragonshaped vase.
Trip Jinx, Potter! he said. Hey, Professor  PROFESSOR! Ive
got one!
Umbridge came bustling around the far corner, breathless but
wearing a delighted smile.
Its him! she said jubilantly at the sight of Harry on the floor. Ex
cellent, Draco, excellent, oh, very good  fifty points to Slytherin! Ill
take him from here. . . . Stand up, Potter!
Harry got to his feet, glaring at the pair of them. He had never seen
Umbridge looking so happy. She seized his arm in a vicelike grip and
turned, beaming broadly, to Malfoy. You hop along and see if you
can round up anymore of them, Draco, she said. Tell the others to
look in the library  anybody out of breath  check the bathrooms,
Miss Parkinson can do the girls ones  off you go  and you, she
added in her softest, most dangerous voice, as Malfoy walked away.
You can come with me to the headmasters office, Potter.
They were at the stone gargoyle within minutes. Harry wondered
how many of the others had been caught. He thought of Ron  Mrs.
Weasley would kill him  and of how Hermione would feel if she
was expelled before she could take her O.W.L.s. And it had been Sea
muss very first meeting . . . and Neville had been getting so good. . . .
Fizzing Whizbee, sang Umbridge, and the stone gargoyle jumped
aside, the wall behind split open, and they ascended the moving stone


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
staircase. They reached the polished door with the griffin knocker, but
Umbridge did not bother to knock, she strode straight inside, still
holding tight to Harry.
The office was full of people. Dumbledore was sitting behind his
desk, his expression serene, the tips of his long fingers together. Pro
fessor McGonagall stood rigidly beside him, her face extremely tense.
Cornelius Fudge, Minister of Magic, was rocking backward and for
ward on his toes beside the fire, apparently immensely pleased with
the situation. Kingsley Shacklebolt and a toughlooking wizard Harry
did not recognize with very short, wiry hair were positioned on either
side of the door like guards, and the freckled, bespectacled form of
Percy Weasley hovered excitedly beside the wall, a quill and a heavy
scroll of parchment in his hands, apparently poised to take notes.
The portraits of old headmasters and mistresses were not sham
ming sleep tonight. All of them were watching what was happening
below, alert and serious. As Harry entered, a few flitted into neigh
boring frames and whispered urgently into their neighbors ears.
Harry pulled himself free of Umbridges grasp as the door swung
shut behind them. Cornelius Fudge was glaring at him with a kind of
vicious satisfaction upon his face.
Well, he said. Well, well, well . . .
Harry replied with the dirtiest look he could muster. His heart
drummed madly inside him, but his brain was oddly cool and clear.
He was heading back to Gryffindor Tower, said Umbridge. There
was an indecent excitement in her voice, the same callous pleasure
Harry had heard as she watched Professor Trelawney dissolving with
misery in the entrance hall. The Malfoy boy cornered him.
Did he, did he? said Fudge appreciatively. I must remember to
tell Lucius. Well, Potter . . . I expect you know why you are here?
Harry fully intended to respond with a defiant yes His mouth
had opened and the word was half formed when he caught sight of


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
Dumbledores face. Dumbledore was not looking directly at Harry
his eyes were fixed upon a point just over his shoulder, but as Harry
stared at him, he shook his head a fraction of an inch to each side.
Harry changed direction midword.
Yeh  no.
I beg your pardon? said Fudge.
No, said Harry, firmly.
You dont know why you are here?
No, I dont, said Harry.
Fudge looked incredulously from Harry to Professor Umbridge
Harry took advantage of his momentary inattention to steal another
quick look at Dumbledore, who gave the carpet the tiniest of nods
and the shadow of a wink.
So you have no idea, said Fudge in a voice positively sagging with
sarcasm, why Professor Umbridge has brought you to this office? You
are not aware that you have broken any school rules?
School rules? said Harry. No.
Or Ministry decrees? amended Fudge angrily.
Not that Im aware of, said Harry blandly.
His heart was still hammering very fast. It was almost worth telling
these lies to watch Fudges blood pressure rising, but he could not see
how on earth he would get away with them. If somebody had tipped
off Umbridge about the D.A. then he, the leader, might as well be
packing his trunk right now.
So its news to you, is it, said Fudge, his voice now thick with
anger, that an illegal student organization has been discovered within
this school?
Yes, it is, said Harry, hoisting an unconvincing look of innocent
surprise onto his face.
I think, Minister, said Umbridge silkily from beside him, we
might make better progress if I fetch our informant.


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
Yes, yes, do, said Fudge, nodding, and he glanced maliciously at
Dumbledore as Umbridge left the room. Theres nothing like a good
witness, is there, Dumbledore?
Nothing at all, Cornelius, said Dumbledore gravely, inclining his
head.
There was a wait of several minutes, in which nobody looked at
each other, then Harry heard the door open behind him. Umbridge
moved past him into the room, gripping by the shoulder Chos curly
haired friend Marietta, who was hiding her face in her hands.
Dont be scared, dear, dont be frightened, said Professor Um
bridge softly, patting her on the back, its quite all right, now. You
have done the right thing. The minister is very pleased with you. Hell
be telling your mother what a good girl youve been. Mariettas mother,
Minister, she added, looking up at Fudge, is Madam Edgecombe
from the Department of Magical Transportation. Floo Network of
fice  shes been helping us police the Hogwarts fires, you know.
Jolly good, jolly good! said Fudge heartily. Like mother, like
daughter, eh? Well, come on, now, dear, look up, dont be shy, lets
hear what youve got to  galloping gargoyles!
As Marietta raised her head, Fudge leapt backward in shock, nearly
landing himself in the fire. He cursed and stamped on the hem of his
cloak, which had started to smoke, and Marietta gave a wail and
pulled the neck of her robes right up to her eyes, but not before the
whole room had seen that her face was horribly disfigured by a series
of closeset purple pustules that had spread across her nose and cheeks
to form the word SNEAK.
Never mind the spots now, dear, said Umbridge impatiently, just
take your robes away from your mouth and tell the Minister 
But Marietta gave another muffled wail and shook her head
frantically.
Oh, very well, you silly girl, Ill tell him, snapped Umbridge. She
hitched her sickly smile back onto her face and said, Well, Minister,


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
Miss Edgecombe here came to my office shortly after dinner this
evening and told me she had something she wanted to tell me. She
said that if I proceeded to a secret room on the seventh floor, some
times known as the Room of Requirement, I would find out some
thing to my advantage. I questioned her a little further and she
admitted that there was to be some kind of meeting there. Unfortu
nately at that point this hex, she waved impatiently at Mariettas con
cealed face, came into operation and upon catching sight of her face
in my mirror the girl became too distressed to tell me any more.
Well, now, said Fudge, fixing Marietta with what he evidently
imagined was a kind and fatherly look. It is very brave of you, my
dear, coming to tell Professor Umbridge, you did exactly the right
thing. Now, will you tell me what happened at this meeting? What
was its purpose? Who was there?
But Marietta would not speak. She merely shook her head again,
her eyes wide and fearful.
Havent we got a counterjinx for this? Fudge asked Umbridge
impatiently, gesturing at Mariettas face. So she can speak freely?
I have not yet managed to find one, Umbridge admitted grudg
ingly, and Harry felt a surge of pride in Hermiones jinxing ability.
But it doesnt matter if she wont speak, I can take up the story from
here.
You will remember, Minister, that I sent you a report back in Oc
tober that Potter had met a number of fellow students in the Hogs
Head in Hogsmeade 
And what is your evidence for that? cut in Professor McGonagall.
I have testimony from Willy Widdershins, Minerva, who hap
pened to be in the bar at the time. He was heavily bandaged, it is true,
but his hearing was quite unimpaired, said Umbridge smugly. He
heard every word Potter said and hastened straight to the school to re
port to me 
Oh, so thats why he wasnt prosecuted for setting up all those


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
regurgitating toilets! said Professor McGonagall, raising her eye
brows. What an interesting insight into our justice system!
Blatant corruption! roared the portrait of the corpulent, red
nosed wizard on the wall behind Dumbledores desk. The Ministry
did not cut deals with petty criminals in my day, no sir, they did not!
Thank you, Fortescue, that will do, said Dumbledore softly.
The purpose of Potters meeting with these students, continued
Professor Umbridge, was to persuade them to join an illegal society,
whose aim was to learn spells and curses the Ministry has decided are
inappropriate for schoolage 
I think youll find youre wrong there, Dolores, said Dumbledore
quietly, peering at her over the halfmoon spectacles perched halfway
down his crooked nose.
Harry stared at him. He could not see how Dumbledore was going
to talk him out of this one if Willy Widdershins had indeed heard
every word he said in the Hogs Head there was simply no escaping it.
Oho! said Fudge, bouncing up and down on the balls of his feet
again. Yes, do lets hear the latest cockandbull story designed to pull
Potter out of trouble! Go on, then, Dumbledore, go on  Willy
Widdershins was lying, was he? Or was it Potters identical twin in the
Hogs Head that day? Or is there the usual simple explanation involv
ing a reversal of time, a dead man coming back to life, and a couple of
invisible dementors?
Percy Weasley let out a hearty laugh.
Oh, very good, Minister, very good!
Harry could have kicked him. Then he saw, to his astonishment,
that Dumbledore was smiling gently too.
Cornelius, I do not deny  and nor, I am sure, does Harry 
that he was in the Hogs Head that day, nor that he was trying to re
cruit students to a Defense Against the Dark Arts group. I am merely
pointing out that Dolores is quite wrong to suggest that such a group
was, at that time, illegal. If you remember, the Ministry decree ban


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
ning all student societies was not put into effect until two days after
Harrys Hogsmeade meeting, so he was not breaking any rules in the
Hogs Head at all.
Percy looked as though he had been struck in the face by something
very heavy. Fudge remained motionless in midbounce, his mouth
hanging open.
Umbridge recovered first.
Thats all very fine, Headmaster, she said, smiling sweetly. But
we are now nearly six months on from the introduction of Educational
Decree Number Twentyfour. If the first meeting was not illegal, all
those that have happened since most certainly are.
Well, said Dumbledore, surveying her with polite interest over
the top of his interlocked fingers, they certainly would be, if they had
continued after the decree came into effect. Do you have any evidence
that these meetings continued?
As Dumbledore spoke, Harry heard a rustle behind him and rather
thought Kingsley whispered something. He could have sworn too that
he felt something brush against his side, a gentle something like a
draft or bird wings, but looking down he saw nothing there.
Evidence? repeated Umbridge with that horrible wide toadlike
smile. Have you not been listening, Dumbledore? Why do you think
Miss Edgecombe is here?
Oh, can she tell us about six months worth of meetings? said
Dumbledore, raising his eyebrows. I was under the impression that
she was merely reporting a meeting tonight.
Miss Edgecombe, said Umbridge at once, tell us how long these
meetings have been going on, dear. You can simply nod or shake your
head, Im sure that wont make the spots worse. Have they been hap
pening regularly over the last six months?
Harry felt a horrible plummeting in his stomach. This was it, they
had hit a dead end of solid evidence that not even Dumbledore would
be able to shift aside. . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
Just nod or shake your head, dear, Umbridge said coaxingly to
Marietta. Come on, now, that wont activate the jinx further. . . .
Everyone in the room was gazing at the top of Mariettas face. Only
her eyes were visible between the pulled up robes and her curly fringe.
Perhaps it was a trick of the firelight, but her eyes looked oddly blank.
And then  to Harrys utter amazement  Marietta shook her head.
Umbridge looked quickly at Fudge and then back at Marietta.
I dont think you understood the question, did you, dear? Im ask
ing whether youve been going to these meetings for the past six
months? You have, havent you?
Again, Marietta shook her head.
What do you mean by shaking your head, dear? said Umbridge
in a testy voice.
I would have thought her meaning was quite clear, said Professor
McGonagall harshly. There have been no secret meetings for the past
six months. Is that correct, Miss Edgecombe?
Marietta nodded.
But there was a meeting tonight! said Umbridge furiously.
There was a meeting, Miss Edgecombe, you told me about it, in the
Room of Requirement! And Potter was the leader, was he not, Potter
organized it, Potter  why are you shaking your head, girl ?
Well, usually when a person shakes their head, said McGonagall
coldly, they mean no. So unless Miss Edgecombe is using a form of
sign language as yet unknown to humans 
Professor Umbridge seized Marietta, pulled her around to face her,
and began shaking her very hard. A split second later Dumbledore was
on his feet, his wand raised. Kingsley started forward and Umbridge
leapt back from Marietta, waving her hands in the air as though they
had been burned.
I cannot allow you to manhandle my students, Dolores, said
Dumbledore, and for the first time, he looked angry.
You want to calm yourself, Madam Umbridge, said Kingsley in


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
his deep, slow voice. You dont want to get yourself into trouble
now.
No, said Umbridge breathlessly, glancing up at the towering fig
ure of Kingsley. I mean, yes  youre right, Shacklebolt  I  I
forgot myself.
Marietta was standing exactly where Umbridge had released her.
She seemed neither perturbed by Umbridges sudden attack, nor re
lieved by her release. She was still clutching her robe up to her oddly
blank eyes, staring straight ahead of her. A sudden suspicion con
nected to Kingsleys whisper and the thing he had felt shoot past him
sprang into Harrys mind.
Dolores, said Fudge, with the air of trying to settle something
once and for all, the meeting tonight  the one we know definitely
happened 
Yes, said Umbridge, pulling herself together, yes . . . well, Miss
Edgecombe tipped me off and I proceeded at once to the seventh
floor, accompanied by certain trustworthy students, so as to catch
those in the meeting redhanded. It appears that they were forewarned
of my arrival, however, because when we reached the seventh floor
they were running in every direction. It does not matter, however. I
have all their names here, Miss Parkinson ran into the Room of Re
quirement for me to see if they had left anything behind. . . . We
needed evidence and the room provided . . .
And to Harrys horror, she withdrew from her pocket the list of
names that had been pinned upon the Room of Requirements wall
and handed it to Fudge.
The moment I saw Potters name on the list, I knew what we were
dealing with, she said softly.
Excellent, said Fudge, a smile spreading across his face. Excel
lent, Dolores. And . . . by thunder . . .
He looked up at Dumbledore, who was still standing beside Mari
etta, his wand held loosely in his hand.


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
See what theyve named themselves? said Fudge quietly. Dum
bledores Army.
Dumbledore reached out and took the piece of parchment from
Fudge. He gazed at the heading scribbled by Hermione months be
fore and for a moment seemed unable to speak. Then he looked up,
smiling.
Well, the game is up, he said simply. Would you like a written
confession from me, Cornelius  or will a statement before these
witnesses suffice?
Harry saw McGonagall and Kingsley look at each other. There was
fear in both faces. He did not understand what was going on, and nei
ther, apparently, did Fudge.
Statement? said Fudge slowly. What  I dont  ?
Dumbledores Army, Cornelius, said Dumbledore, still smiling as
he waved the list of names before Fudges face. Not Potters Army.
Dumbledores Army.
But  but 
Understanding blazed suddenly in Fudges face. He took a horrified
step backward, yelped, and jumped out of the fire again.
You? he whispered, stamping again on his smoldering cloak.
Thats right, said Dumbledore pleasantly.
You organized this?
I did, said Dumbledore.
You recruited these students for  for your army?
Tonight was supposed to be the first meeting, said Dumbledore,
nodding. Merely to see whether they would be interested in joining
me. I see now that it was a mistake to invite Miss Edgecombe, of
course.
Marietta nodded. Fudge looked from her to Dumbledore, his chest
swelling.
Then you have been plotting against me! he yelled.
Thats right, said Dumbledore cheerfully.


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
NO! shouted Harry.
Kingsley flashed a look of warning at him, McGonagall widened
her eyes threateningly, but it had suddenly dawned upon Harry what
Dumbledore was about to do, and he could not let it happen.
No  Professor Dumbledore!
Be quiet, Harry, or I am afraid you will have to leave my office,
said Dumbledore calmly.
Yes, shut up, Potter! barked Fudge, who was still ogling Dumble
dore with a kind of horrified delight. Well, well, well  I came here
tonight expecting to expel Potter and instead 
Instead you get to arrest me, said Dumbledore, smiling. Its like
losing a Knut and finding a Galleon, isnt it?
Weasley! cried Fudge, now positively quivering with delight,
Weasley, have you written it all down, everything hes said, his con
fession, have you got it?
Yes, sir, I think so, sir! said Percy eagerly, whose nose was splat
tered with ink from the speed of his notetaking.
The bit about how hes been trying to build up an army against
the Ministry, how hes been working to destabilize me?
Yes, sir, Ive got it, yes! said Percy, scanning his notes joyfully.
Very well, then, said Fudge, now radiant with glee. Duplicate
your notes, Weasley, and send a copy to the Daily Prophet at once. If
we send a fast owl we should make the morning edition! Percy
dashed from the room, slamming the door behind him, and Fudge
turned back to Dumbledore. You will now be escorted back to the
Ministry, where you will be formally charged and then sent to Azka
ban to await trial!
Ah, said Dumbledore gently, yes. Yes, I thought we might hit
that little snag.
Snag? said Fudge, his voice still vibrating with joy. I see no snag,
Dumbledore!
Well, said Dumbledore apologetically, Im afraid I do.


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
Oh really?
Well  its just that you seem to be laboring under the delusion
that I am going to  what is the phrase? Come quietly I am afraid I
am not going to come quietly at all, Cornelius. I have absolutely no
intention of being sent to Azkaban. I could break out, of course 
but what a waste of time, and frankly, I can think of a whole host of
things I would rather be doing.
Umbridges face was growing steadily redder, she looked as though
she was being filled with boiling water. Fudge stared at Dumbledore
with a very silly expression on his face, as though he had just been
stunned by a sudden blow and could not quite believe it had hap
pened. He made a small choking noise and then looked around at
Kingsley and the man with short gray hair, who alone of everyone in
the room had remained entirely silent so far. The latter gave Fudge a
reassuring nod and moved forward a little, away from the wall. Harry
saw his hand drift, almost casually, toward his pocket.
Dont be silly, Dawlish, said Dumbledore kindly. Im sure you
are an excellent Auror, I seem to remember that you achieved Out
standing in all your N.E.W.T.s, but if you attempt to  er  bring
me in by force, I will have to hurt you.
The man called Dawlish blinked, looking rather foolish. He looked
toward Fudge again, but this time seemed to be hoping for a clue as to
what to do next.
So, sneered Fudge, recovering himself, you intend to take on
Dawlish, Shacklebolt, Dolores, and myself singlehanded, do you,
Dumbledore?
Merlins beard, no, said Dumbledore, smiling. Not unless you
are foolish enough to force me to.
He will not be singlehanded! said Professor McGonagall loudly,
plunging her hand inside her robes.
Oh yes he will, Minerva! said Dumbledore sharply. Hogwarts
needs you!


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
Enough of this rubbish! said Fudge, pulling out his own wand.
Dawlish! Shacklebolt! Take him!
A streak of silver light flashed around the room. There was a bang
like a gunshot, and the floor trembled. A hand grabbed the scruff of
Harrys neck and forced him down on the floor as a second silver flash
went off  several of the portraits yelled, Fawkes screeched, and a
cloud of dust filled the air. Coughing in the dust, Harry saw a dark fig
ure fall to the ground with a crash in front of him. There was a shriek
and a thud and somebody cried, No! Then the sound of breaking
glass, frantically scuffling footsteps, a groan  and silence.
Harry struggled around to see who was halfstrangling him and saw
Professor McGonagall crouched beside him. She had forced both him
and Marietta out of harms way. Dust was still floating gently down
through the air onto them. Panting slightly, Harry saw a very tall fig
ure moving toward them.
Are you all right? said Dumbledore.
Yes! said Professor McGonagall, getting up and dragging Harry
and Marietta with her.
The dust was clearing. The wreckage of the office loomed into
view Dumbledores desk had been overturned, all of the spindly ta
bles had been knocked to the floor, their silver instruments in pieces.
Fudge, Umbridge, Kingsley, and Dawlish lay motionless on the floor.
Fawkes the phoenix soared in wide circles above them, singing softly.
Unfortunately, I had to hex Kingsley too, or it would have looked
very suspicious, said Dumbledore in a low voice. He was remark
ably quick on the uptake, modifying Miss Edgecombes memory like
that while everyone was looking the other way  thank him for me,
wont you, Minerva?
Now, they will all awake very soon and it will be best if they do
not know that we had time to communicate  you must act as though
no time has passed, as though they were merely knocked to the
ground, they will not remember 


CHAPTER TWENTYSEVEN
Where will you go, Dumbledore? whispered Professor McGona
gall. Grimmauld Place?
Oh no, said Dumbledore with a grim smile. I am not leaving to
go into hiding. Fudge will soon wish hed never dislodged me from
Hogwarts, I promise you. . . .
Professor Dumbledore . . . Harry began.
He did not know what to say first how sorry he was that he had
started the D.A. in the first place and caused all this trouble, or how
terrible he felt that Dumbledore was leaving to save him from expul
sion? But Dumbledore cut him off before he could say another word.
Listen to me, Harry, he said urgently, you must study Occlu
mency as hard as you can, do you understand me? Do everything Pro
fessor Snape tells you and practice it particularly every night before
sleeping so that you can close your mind to bad dreams  you will
understand why soon enough, but you must promise me 
The man called Dawlish was stirring. Dumbledore seized Harrys
wrist.
Remember  close your mind 
But as Dumbledores fingers closed over Harrys skin, a pain shot
through the scar on his forehead, and he felt again that terrible, snake
like longing to strike Dumbledore, to bite him, to hurt him 
 you will understand, whispered Dumbledore.
Fawkes circled the office and swooped low over him. Dumbledore
released Harry, raised his hand, and grasped the phoenixs long golden
tail. There was a flash of fire and the pair of them had gone.
Where is he? yelled Fudge, pushing himself up from the ground.
Where is he?
I dont know! shouted Kingsley, also leaping to his feet.
Well, he cant have Disapparated! cried Umbridge. You cant in
side this school 
The stairs! cried Dawlish, and he flung himself upon the door,
wrenched it open, and disappeared, followed closely by Kingsley and


THE CENTAUR AND
THE SNEAK
Umbridge. Fudge hesitated, then got to his feet slowly, brushing dust
from his front. There was a long and painful silence.
Well, Minerva, said Fudge nastily, straightening his torn shirt
sleeve, Im afraid this is the end of your friend Dumbledore.
You think so, do you? said Professor McGonagall scornfully.
Fudge seemed not to hear her. He was looking around at the
wrecked office. A few of the portraits hissed at him one or two even
made rude hand gestures.
Youd better get those two off to bed, said Fudge, looking back at
Professor McGonagall with a dismissive nod toward Harry and
Marietta.
She said nothing, but marched Harry and Marietta to the door. As
it swung closed behind them, Harry heard Phineas Nigelluss voice.
You know, Minister, I disagree with Dumbledore on many counts
. . . but you cannot deny hes got style. . . .


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y  E I G H T
SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
 by order of 
The Ministry of Magic
Dolores Jane Umbridge High Inquisitor has replaced Al
bus Dumbledore as Head of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft
and Wizardry.
The above is in accordance with
Educational Decree Number Twentyeight.
Signed
minister of magic
The notices had gone up all over the school overnight, but they did
not explain how every single person within the castle seemed to know


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
that Dumbledore had overcome two Aurors, the High Inquisitor, the
Minister of Magic, and his Junior Assistant to escape. No matter
where Harry went within the castle next day, the sole topic of conver
sation was Dumbledores flight, and though some of the details might
have gone awry in the retelling Harry overheard one secondyear girl
assuring another that Fudge was now lying in St. Mungos with a
pumpkin for a head, it was surprising how accurate the rest of their
information was. Everybody seemed aware, for instance, that Harry
and Marietta were the only students to have witnessed the scene in
Dumbledores office, and as Marietta was now in the hospital wing,
Harry found himself besieged with requests to give a firsthand ac
count wherever he went.
Dumbledore will be back before long, said Ernie Macmillan con
fidently on the way back from Herbology after listening intently to
Harrys story. They couldnt keep him away in our second year and
they wont be able to this time. The Fat Friar told me . . . He dropped
his voice conspiratorially, so that Harry, Ron, and Hermione had to
lean closer to him to hear, . . . that Umbridge tried to get back into his
office last night after theyd searched the castle and grounds for him.
Couldnt get past the gargoyle. The Heads office has sealed itself against
her. Ernie smirked. Apparently she had a right little tantrum. . . .
Oh, I expect she really fancied herself sitting up there in the Heads
office, said Hermione viciously, as they walked up the stone steps into
the entrance hall. Lording it over all the other teachers, the stupid
puffedup, powercrazy old 
Now, do you really want to finish that sentence, Granger?
Draco Malfoy had slid out from behind the door, followed by
Crabbe and Goyle. His pale, pointed face was alight with malice.
Afraid Im going to have to dock a few points from Gryffindor and
Hufflepuff, he drawled.
Its only teachers that can dock points from Houses, Malfoy, said
Ernie at once.


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
Yeah, were prefects too, remember? snarled Ron.
I know prefects cant dock points, Weasel King, sneered Malfoy
Crabbe and Goyle sniggered. But members of the Inquisitorial
Squad 
The what? said Hermione sharply.
The Inquisitorial Squad, Granger, said Malfoy, pointing toward a
tiny silver I upon his robes just beneath his prefects badge. A select
group of students who are supportive of the Ministry of Magic, hand
picked by Professor Umbridge. Anyway, members of the Inquisitorial
Squad do have the power to dock points. . . . So, Granger, Ill have five
from you for being rude about our new headmistress. . . . Macmillan,
five for contradicting me. . . . Five because I dont like you, Potter . . .
Weasley, your shirts untucked, so Ill have another five for that. . . . Oh
yeah, I forgot, youre a Mudblood, Granger, so ten for that. . . .
Ron pulled out his wand, but Hermione pushed it away, whisper
ing, Dont!
Wise move, Granger, breathed Malfoy. New Head, new times
. . . Be good now, Potty . . . Weasel King . . .
He strode away, laughing heartily with Crabbe and Goyle.
He was bluffing, said Ernie, looking appalled. He cant be al
lowed to dock points . . . that would be ridiculous. . . . It would com
pletely undermine the prefect system. . . .
But Harry, Ron, and Hermione had turned automatically toward
the giant hourglasses set in niches along the wall behind them, which
recorded the House points. Gryffindor and Ravenclaw had been neck
and neck in the lead that morning. Even as they watched, stones flew
upward, reducing the amounts in the lower bulbs. In fact, the only
glass that seemed unchanged was the emeraldfilled one of Slytherin.
Noticed, have you? said Freds voice.
He and George had just come down the marble staircase and joined
Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ernie in front of the hourglasses.
Malfoy just docked us all about fifty points, said Harry furiously,


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
as they watched several more stones fly upward from the Gryffindor
hourglass.
Yeah, Montague tried to do us during break, said George.
What do you mean, tried? said Ron quickly.
He never managed to get all the words out, said Fred, due to the
fact that we forced him headfirst into that Vanishing Cabinet on the
first floor.
Hermione looked very shocked.
But youll get into terrible trouble!
Not until Montague reappears, and that could take weeks, I
dunno where we sent him, said Fred coolly. Anyway . . . weve de
cided we dont care about getting into trouble anymore.
Have you ever? asked Hermione.
 Course we have, said George. Never been expelled, have we?
Weve always known where to draw the line, said Fred.
We might have put a toe across it occasionally, said George.
But weve always stopped short of causing real mayhem, said
Fred.
But now? said Ron tentatively.
Well, now  said George.
 what with Dumbledore gone  said Fred.
 we reckon a bit of mayhem  said George.
 is exactly what our dear new Head deserves, said Fred.
You mustnt! whispered Hermione. You really mustnt! Shed
love a reason to expel you!
You dont get it, Hermione, do you? said Fred, smiling at her.
We dont care about staying anymore. Wed walk out right now if we
werent determined to do our bit for Dumbledore first. So anyway, he
checked his watch, phase one is about to begin. Id get in the Great
Hall for lunch if I were you, that way the teachers will see you cant
have had anything to do with it.
Anything to do with what? said Hermione anxiously.


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
Youll see, said George. Run along, now.
Fred and George turned away and disappeared in the swelling
crowd descending the stairs toward lunch. Looking highly discon
certed, Ernie muttered something about unfinished Transfiguration
homework and scurried away.
I think we should get out of here, you know, said Hermione ner
vously. Just in case . . .
Yeah, all right, said Ron, and the three of them moved toward the
doors to the Great Hall, but Harry had barely glimpsed todays ceiling
of scudding white clouds when somebody tapped him on the shoul
der and, turning, he found himself almost nose to nose with Filch, the
caretaker. He took several hasty steps backward Filch was best viewed
at a distance.
The headmistress would like to see you, Potter, he leered.
I didnt do it, said Harry stupidly, thinking of whatever Fred and
George were planning. Filchs jowls wobbled with silent laughter.
Guilty conscience, eh? he wheezed. Follow me. . . .
Harry glanced back at Ron and Hermione, who were both looking
worried. He shrugged and followed Filch back into the entrance hall,
against the tide of hungry students.
Filch seemed to be in an extremely good mood he hummed creak
ily under his breath as they climbed the marble staircase. As they
reached the first landing he said, Things are changing around here,
Potter.
Ive noticed, said Harry coldly.
Yerse . . . Ive been telling Dumbledore for years and years hes too
soft with you all, said Filch, chuckling nastily. You filthy little beasts
would never have dropped Stinkpellets if youd known I had it in my
power to whip you raw, would you, now? Nobody would have
thought of throwing Fanged Frisbees down the corridors if I couldve
strung you up by the ankles in my office, would they? But when Edu
cational Decree Twentynine comes in, Potter, Ill be allowed to do


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
them things. . . . And shes asked the Minister to sign an order for the
expulsion of Peeves. . . . Oh, things are going to be very different
around here with her in charge. . . .
Umbridge had obviously gone to some lengths to get Filch on her
side, Harry thought, and the worst of it was that he would probably
prove an important weapon his knowledge of the schools secret pas
sageways and hiding places was probably second only to the Weasley
twins.
Here we are, he said, leering down at Harry as he rapped three
times upon Professor Umbridges door and pushed it open. The Pot
ter boy to see you, maam.
Umbridges office, so very familiar to Harry from his many deten
tions, was the same as usual except for the large wooden block lying
across the front of her desk on which golden letters spelled the word
HEADMISTRESS also his Firebolt, and Freds and Georges Clean
sweeps, which he saw with a pang were now chained and padlocked to
a stout iron peg in the wall behind the desk. Umbridge was sitting be
hind the desk, busily scribbling upon some of her pink parchment,
but looked up and smiled widely at their entrance.
Thank you, Argus, she said sweetly.
Not at all, maam, not at all, said Filch, bowing as low as his
rheumatism would permit, and exiting backward.
Sit, said Umbridge curtly, pointing toward a chair, and Harry sat.
She continued to scribble for a few moments. He watched some of the
foul kittens gamboling around the plates over her head, wondering
what fresh horror she had in store for him.
Well now, she said finally, setting down her quill and looking
like a toad about to swallow a particularly juicy fly. What would you
like to drink?
What? said Harry, quite sure he had misheard her.
To drink, Mr. Potter, she said, smiling still more widely. Tea?
Coffee? Pumpkin juice?


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
As she named each drink, she gave her short wand a wave, and a
cup or glass of it appeared upon her desk.
Nothing, thank you, said Harry.
I wish you to have a drink with me, she said, her voice becoming
more dangerously sweet. Choose one.
Fine . . . tea then, said Harry, shrugging.
She got up and made quite a performance of adding milk with her
back to him. She then bustled around the desk with it, smiling in sin
isterly sweet fashion.
There, she said, handing it to him. Drink it before it gets cold,
wont you? Well, now, Mr. Potter . . . I thought we ought to have a lit
tle chat, after the distressing events of last night.
He said nothing. She settled herself back into her seat and waited.
When several long moments had passed in silence, she said gaily,
Youre not drinking up!
He raised the cup to his lips and then, just as suddenly, lowered it.
One of the horrible painted kittens behind Umbridge had great round
blue eyes just like MadEye Moodys magical one, and it had just oc
curred to Harry what MadEye would say if he ever heard that Harry
had drunk anything offered by a known enemy.
Whats the matter? said Umbridge, who was still watching him.
Do you want sugar?
No, said Harry.
He raised the cup to his lips again and pretended to take a sip,
though keeping his mouth tightly closed. Umbridges smile widened.
Good, she whispered. Very good. Now then . . . She leaned
forward a little. Where is Albus Dumbledore?
No idea, said Harry promptly.
Drink up, drink up, she said, still smiling. Now, Mr. Potter, let
us not play childish games. I know that you know where he has gone.
You and Dumbledore have been in this together from the beginning.
Consider your position, Mr. Potter. . . .


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
I dont know where he is.
Harry pretended to drink again.
Very well, said Umbridge, looking displeased. In that case, you
will kindly tell me the whereabouts of Sirius Black.
Harrys stomach turned over and his hand holding the teacup
shook so that the cup rattled in its saucer. He tilted the cup to his
mouth with his lips pressed together, so that some of the hot liquid
trickled down onto his robes.
I dont know, he said a little too quickly.
Mr. Potter, said Umbridge, let me remind you that it was I who
almost caught the criminal Black in the Gryffindor fire in October. I
know perfectly well it was you he was meeting and if I had had any
proof neither of you would be at large today, I promise you. I repeat,
Mr. Potter . . . Where is Sirius Black?
No idea, said Harry loudly. Havent got a clue.
They stared at each other so long that Harry felt his eyes watering.
Then she stood up.
Very well, Potter, I will take your word for it this time, but be
warned The might of the Ministry stands behind me. All channels of
communication in and out of this school are being monitored. A Floo
Network Regulator is keeping watch over every fire in Hogwarts 
except my own, of course. My Inquisitorial Squad is opening and
reading all owl post entering and leaving the castle. And Mr. Filch is
observing all secret passages in and out of the castle. If I find a shred
of evidence . . .
BOOM!
The very floor of the office shook Umbridge slipped sideways,
clutching her desk for support, looking shocked.
What was  ?
She was gazing toward the door Harry took the opportunity to
empty his almost full cup of tea into the nearest vase of dried flowers.
He could hear people running and screaming several floors below.


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
Back to lunch with you, Potter! cried Umbridge, raising her
wand and dashing out of the office. Harry gave her a few seconds start
then hurried after her to see what the source of all the uproar was.
It was not difficult to find. One floor down, pandemonium reigned.
Somebody and Harry had a very shrewd idea who had set off what
seemed to be an enormous crate of enchanted fireworks.
Dragons comprised entirely of greenandgold sparks were soaring
up and down the corridors, emitting loud fiery blasts and bangs as
they went. Shockingpink Catherine wheels five feet in diameter were
whizzing lethally through the air like so many flying saucers. Rockets
with long tails of brilliant silver stars were ricocheting off the walls.
Sparklers were writing swearwords in midair of their own accord. Fire
crackers were exploding like mines everywhere Harry looked, and in
stead of burning themselves out, fading from sight, or fizzling to a
halt, these pyrotechnical miracles seemed to be gaining in energy and
momentum the longer he watched.
Filch and Umbridge were standing, apparently transfixed with hor
ror, halfway down the stairs. As Harry watched, one of the larger
Catherine wheels seemed to decide that what it needed was more
room to maneuver it whirled toward Umbridge and Filch with a sin
ister wheeeeeeeeee. Both adults yelled with fright and ducked and it
soared straight out of the window behind them and off across the
grounds. Meanwhile, several of the dragons and a large purple bat that
was smoking ominously took advantage of the open door at the end
of the corridor to escape toward the second floor.
Hurry, Filch, hurry! shrieked Umbridge. Theyll be all over the
school unless we do something  Stupefy!
A jet of red light shot out of the end of her wand and hit one of the
rockets. Instead of freezing in midair, it exploded with such force that
it blasted a hole in a painting of a soppylooking witch in the middle
of a meadow  she ran for it just in time, reappearing seconds later


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
squashed into the painting next door, where a couple of wizards play
ing cards stood up hastily to make room for her.
Dont Stun them, Filch! shouted Umbridge angrily, for all the
world as though it had been his suggestion.
Right you are, Headmistress! wheezed Filch, who was a Squib
and could no more have Stunned the fireworks than swallowed them.
He dashed to a nearby cupboard, pulled out a broom, and began swat
ting at the fireworks in midair within seconds the head of the broom
was ablaze.
Harry had seen enough. Laughing, he ducked down low, ran to a
door he knew was concealed behind a tapestry a little way along the
corridor and slipped through it to find Fred and George hiding just
behind it, listening to Umbridges and Filchs yells and quaking with
suppressed mirth.
Impressive, Harry said quietly, grinning. Very impressive . . .
Youll put Dr. Filibuster out of business, no problem. . . .
Cheers, whispered George, wiping tears of laughter from his face.
Oh, I hope she tries Vanishing them next. . . . They multiply by ten
every time you try. . . .
The fireworks continued to burn and to spread all over the school
that afternoon. Though they caused plenty of disruption, particularly
the firecrackers, the other teachers did not seem to mind them very
much.
Dear, dear, said Professor McGonagall sardonically, as one of the
dragons soared around her classroom, emitting loud bangs and exhal
ing flame. Miss Brown, would you mind running along to the head
mistress and informing her that we have an escaped firework in our
classroom?
The upshot of it all was that Professor Umbridge spent her first af
ternoon as headmistress running all over the school answering the
summonses of the other teachers, none of whom seemed able to rid


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
their rooms of the fireworks without her. When the final bell rang and
the students were heading back to Gryffindor Tower with their bags,
Harry saw, with immense satisfaction, a disheveled and sootblackened
Umbridge tottering sweatyfaced from Professor Flitwicks classroom.
Thank you so much, Professor! said Professor Flitwick in his
squeaky little voice. I could have got rid of the sparklers myself, of
course, but I wasnt sure whether I had the authority. . . .
Beaming, he closed his classroom door in her snarling face.
Fred and George were heroes that night in the Gryffindor common
room. Even Hermione fought her way through the excited crowd
around them to congratulate them.
They were wonderful fireworks, she said admiringly.
Thanks, said George, looking both surprised and pleased.
Weasleys Wildfire WhizBangs. Only thing is, we used our whole
stock, were going to have to start again from scratch now. . . .
It was worth it, though, said Fred, who was taking orders from
clamoring Gryffindors. If you want to add your name to the waiting
list, Hermione, its five Galleons for your Basic Blaze box and twenty
for the Deflagration Deluxe. . . .
Hermione returned to the table where Harry and Ron were sitting
staring at their schoolbags as though hoping their homework might
spring out of it and start doing itself.
Oh, why dont we have a night off? said Hermione brightly, as a
silvertailed Weasley rocket zoomed past the window. After all, the
Easter holidays start on Friday, well have plenty of time then. . . .
Are you feeling all right? Ron asked, staring at her in disbelief.
Now you mention it, said Hermione happily, dyou know . . . I
think Im feeling a bit . . . rebellious.
Harry could still hear the distant bangs of escaped firecrackers when
he and Ron went up to bed an hour later, and as he got undressed a
sparkler floated past the tower, still resolutely spelling out the word
POO.


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
He got into bed, yawning. With his glasses off, the occasional fire
work still passing the window became blurred, looking like sparkling
clouds, beautiful and mysterious against the black sky. He turned
onto his side, wondering how Umbridge was feeling about her first
day in Dumbledores job, and how Fudge would react when he heard
that the school had spent most of the day in a state of advanced dis
ruption. . . . Smiling to himself, he closed his eyes. . . .
The whizzes and bangs of escaped fireworks in the grounds seemed
to be growing more distant . . . or perhaps he, Harry, was simply
speeding away from them. . . .
He had fallen right into the corridor leading to the Department of
Mysteries. He was speeding toward the plain black door. . . . Let it
open. . . . Let it open. . . .
It did. He was inside the circular room lined with doors. . . . He
crossed it, placed his hand upon an identical door, and it swung
inward. . . .
Now he was in a long, rectangular room full of an odd, mechanical
clicking. There were dancing flecks of light on the walls but he did
not pause to investigate. . . . He had to go on. . . .
There was a door at the far end. . . . It too opened at his touch. . . .
And now he was in a dimly lit room as high and wide as a church,
full of nothing but rows and rows of towering shelves, each laden
with small, dusty, spunglass spheres. . . . Now Harrys heart was
beating fast with excitement. . . . He knew where to go. . . . He ran
forward, but his footsteps made no noise in the enormous, deserted
room. . . .
There was something in this room he wanted very, very much. . . .
Something he wanted. . . . or somebody else wanted. . . .
His scar was hurting. . . .
BANG! Harry awoke instantly, confused and angry. The dark dor
mitory was full of the sound of laughter.
Cool! said Seamus, who was silhouetted against the window.


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
I think one of those Catherine wheels hit a rocket and its like they
mated, come and see!
Harry heard Ron and Dean scramble out of bed for a better look.
He lay quite still and silent while the pain in his scar subsided and dis
appointment washed over him. He felt as though a wonderful treat
had been snatched from him at the very last moment. . . . He had got
so close that time. . . .
Glittering, pinkandsilver winged piglets were now soaring past
the windows of Gryffindor Tower. Harry lay and listened to the ap
preciative whoops of Gryffindors in the dormitories below them. His
stomach gave a sickening jolt as he remembered that he had Occlu
mency the following evening. . . .
Harry spent the whole of the next day dreading what Snape was going
to say if he found out how much farther into the Department of Mys
teries he had penetrated during his last dream. With a surge of guilt he
realized that he had not practiced Occlumency once since their last
lesson There had been too much going on since Dumbledore had
left. He was sure he would not have been able to empty his mind even
if he had tried. He doubted, however, whether Snape would accept
that excuse. . . .
He attempted a little lastminute practice during classes that day,
but it was no good, Hermione kept asking him what was wrong
whenever he fell silent trying to rid himself of all thought and emo
tion and, after all, the best moment to empty his brain was not while
teachers were firing review questions at the class.
Resigned to the worst, he set off for Snapes office after dinner.
Halfway across the entrance hall, however, Cho came hurrying up to
him.
Over here, said Harry, glad of a reason to postpone his meeting
with Snape and beckoning her across to the corner of the entrance hall
where the giant hourglasses stood. Gryffindors was now almost


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
empty. Are you okay? Umbridge hasnt been asking you about the
D.A., has she?
Oh no, said Cho hurriedly. No, it was only . . . Well, I just
wanted to say . . . Harry, I never dreamed Marietta would tell. . . .
Yeah, well, said Harry moodily. He did feel Cho might have cho
sen her friends a bit more carefully. It was small consolation that the
last he had heard, Marietta was still up in the hospital wing and
Madam Pomfrey had not been able to make the slightest improve
ment to her pimples.
Shes a lovely person really, said Cho. She just made a
mistake 
Harry looked at her incredulously.
A lovely person who made a mistake? She sold us all out, including
you!
Well . . . we all got away, didnt we? said Cho pleadingly. You
know, her mum works for the Ministry, its really difficult for her 
Rons dad works for the Ministry too! Harry said furiously. And
in case you hadnt noticed, he hasnt got sneak written across his
face 
That was a really horrible trick of Hermione Grangers, said Cho
fiercely. She should have told us shed jinxed that list 
I think it was a brilliant idea, said Harry coldly. Cho flushed and
her eyes grew brighter.
Oh yes, I forgot  of course, if it was darling Hermiones idea 
Dont start crying again, said Harry warningly.
I wasnt going to! she shouted.
Yeah . . . well . . . good, he said. Ive got enough to cope with at
the moment.
Go and cope with it then! she said furiously, turning on her heel
and stalking off.
Fuming, Harry descended the stairs to Snapes dungeon, and
though he knew from experience how much easier it would be for


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
Snape to penetrate his mind if he arrived angry and resentful, he suc
ceeded in nothing but thinking of a few more good things he should
have said to Cho about Marietta before reaching the dungeon door.
Youre late, Potter, said Snape coldly, as Harry closed the door be
hind him.
Snape was standing with his back to Harry, removing, as usual, cer
tain of his thoughts and placing them carefully in Dumbledores Pen
sieve. He dropped the last silvery strand into the stone basin and
turned to face Harry.
So, he said. Have you been practicing?
Yes, Harry lied, looking carefully at one of the legs of Snapes
desk.
Well, well soon find out, wont we? said Snape smoothly. Wand
out, Potter.
Harry moved into his usual position, facing Snape with the desk
between them. His heart was pumping fast with anger at Cho and
anxiety about how much Snape was about to extract from his mind.
On the count of three then, said Snape lazily. One  two 
Snapes office door banged open and Draco Malfoy sped in.
Professor Snape, sir  oh  sorry 
Malfoy was looking at Snape and Harry in some surprise.
Its all right, Draco, said Snape, lowering his wand. Potter is here
for a little Remedial Potions.
Harry had not seen Malfoy look so gleeful since Umbridge had
turned up to inspect Hagrid.
I didnt know, he said, leering at Harry, who knew his face was
burning. He would have given a great deal to be able to shout the
truth at Malfoy  or, even better, to hit him with a good curse.
Well, Draco, what is it? asked Snape.
Its Professor Umbridge, sir  she needs your help, said Malfoy.
Theyve found Montague, sir. Hes turned up jammed inside a toilet
on the fourth floor.


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
How did he get in there? demanded Snape.
I dont know, sir, hes a bit confused. . . .
Very well, very well  Potter, said Snape, we shall resume this
lesson tomorrow evening instead.
He turned and swept from his office. Malfoy mouthed Remedial
Potions? at Harry behind Snapes back before following him.
Seething, Harry replaced his wand inside his robes and made to
leave the room. At least he had twentyfour more hours in which to
practice he knew he ought to feel grateful for the narrow escape,
though it was hard that it came at the expense of Malfoy telling the
whole school that he needed Remedial Potions. . . .
He was at the office door when he saw it a patch of shivering light
dancing on the door frame. He stopped, looking at it, reminded of
something. . . . Then he remembered It was a little like the lights he
had seen in his dream last night, the lights in the second room he had
walked through on his journey through the Department of Mysteries.
He turned around. The light was coming from the Pensieve sitting
on Snapes desk. The silverwhite contents were ebbing and swirling
within. Snapes thoughts . . . things he did not want Harry to see if he
broke through Snapes defenses accidentally. . . .
Harry gazed at the Pensieve, curiosity welling inside him. . . . What
was it that Snape was so keen to hide from Harry?
The silvery lights shivered on the wall. . . . Harry took two steps to
ward the desk, thinking hard. Could it possibly be information about
the Department of Mysteries that Snape was determined to keep from
him?
Harry looked over his shoulder, his heart now pumping harder and
faster than ever. How long would it take Snape to release Montague
from the toilet? Would he come straight back to his office afterward,
or accompany Montague to the hospital wing? Surely the latter . . .
Montague was Captain of the Slytherin Quidditch team, Snape
would want to make sure he was all right. . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
Harry walked the remaining few feet to the Pensieve and stood over
it, gazing into its depths. He hesitated, listening, then pulled out his
wand again. The office and the corridor beyond were completely
silent. He gave the contents of the Pensieve a small prod with the end
of his wand.
The silvery stuff within began to swirl very fast. Harry leaned for
ward over it and saw that it had become transparent. He was, once
again, looking down into a room as though through a circular win
dow in the ceiling. . . . In fact, unless he was much mistaken, he was
looking down upon the Great Hall. . . .
His breath was actually fogging the surface of Snapes thoughts. . . .
His brain seemed to be in limbo. . . . It would be insane to do the
thing that he was so strongly tempted to do. . . . He was trembling.
. . . Snape could be back at any moment . . . but Harry thought of
Chos anger, of Malfoys jeering face, and a reckless daring seized him.
He took a great gulp of breath and plunged his face into the surface
of Snapes thoughts. At once, the floor of the office lurched, tipping
Harry headfirst into the Pensieve. . . .
He was falling through cold blackness, spinning furiously as he
went, and then 
He was standing in the middle of the Great Hall, but the four
House tables were gone. Instead there were more than a hundred
smaller tables, all facing the same way, at each of which sat a student,
head bent low, scribbling on a roll of parchment. The only sound was
the scratching of quills and the occasional rustle as somebody adjusted
their parchment. It was clearly exam time.
Sunshine was streaming through the high windows onto the bent
heads, which shone chestnut and copper and gold in the bright light.
Harry looked around carefully. Snape had to be here somewhere. . . .
This was his memory. . . .
And there he was, at a table right behind Harry. Harry stared.
Snapetheteenager had a stringy, pallid look about him, like a plant


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
kept in the dark. His hair was lank and greasy and was flopping onto
the table, his hooked nose barely half an inch from the surface of the
parchment as he scribbled. Harry moved around behind Snape and
read the heading of the examination paper
defense against the dark arts 
ordinary wizarding level
So Snape had to be fifteen or sixteen, around Harrys own age. His
hand was flying across the parchment he had written at least a foot
more than his closest neighbors, and yet his writing was minuscule
and cramped.
Five more minutes!
The voice made Harry jump turning, he saw the top of Professor
Flitwicks head moving between the desks a short distance away. Pro
fessor Flitwick was walking past a boy with untidy black hair . . . very
untidy black hair. . . .
Harry moved so quickly that, had he been solid, he would have
knocked desks flying. Instead he seemed to slide, dreamlike, across
two aisles and up a third. The back of the blackhaired boys head
drew nearer and nearer. . . . He was straightening up now, putting
down his quill, pulling his roll of parchment toward him so as to
reread what he had written. . . .
Harry stopped in front of the desk and gazed down at his fifteen
yearold father.
Excitement exploded in the pit of his stomach It was as though he
was looking at himself but with deliberate mistakes. Jamess eyes were
hazel, his nose was slightly longer than Harrys, and there was no scar
on his forehead, but they had the same thin face, same mouth, same
eyebrows. Jamess hair stuck up at the back exactly as Harrys did, his
hands could have been Harrys, and Harry could tell that when James
stood up, they would be within an inch of each others heights.
James yawned hugely and rumpled up his hair, making it even


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
messier than it had been. Then, with a glance toward Professor
Flitwick, he turned in his seat and grinned at a boy sitting four seats
behind him.
With another shock of excitement, Harry saw Sirius give James the
thumbsup. Sirius was lounging in his chair at his ease, tilting it back
on two legs. He was very goodlooking his dark hair fell into his eyes
with a sort of casual elegance neither Jamess nor Harrys could ever
have achieved, and a girl sitting behind him was eyeing him hopefully,
though he didnt seem to have noticed. And two seats along from this
girl  Harrys stomach gave another pleasurable squirm  was Re
mus Lupin. He looked rather pale and peaky was the full moon ap
proaching? and was absorbed in the exam As he reread his answers
he scratched his chin with the end of his quill, frowning slightly.
So that meant Wormtail had to be around here somewhere too . . .
and sure enough, Harry spotted him within seconds a small, mousy
haired boy with a pointed nose. Wormtail looked anxious he was
chewing his fingernails, staring down at his paper, scuffing the ground
with his toes. Every now and then he glanced hopefully at his neigh
bors paper. Harry stared at Wormtail for a moment, then back at
James, who was now doodling on a bit of scrap parchment. He had
drawn a Snitch and was now tracing the letters L. E. What did they
stand for?
Quills down, please! squeaked Professor Flitwick. That means
you too, Stebbins! Please remain seated while I collect your parch
ment! Accio!
More than a hundred rolls of parchment zoomed into the air and
into Professor Flitwicks outstretched arms, knocking him backward
off his feet. Several people laughed. A couple of students at the front
desks got up, took hold of Professor Flitwick beneath the elbows, and
lifted him onto his feet again.
Thank you . . . thank you, panted Professor Flitwick. Very well,
everybody, youre free to go!


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
Harry looked down at his father, who had hastily crossed out the
L. E. he had been embellishing, jumped to his feet, stuffed his quill
and the exam question paper into his bag, which he slung over his
back, and stood waiting for Sirius to join him.
Harry looked around and glimpsed Snape a short way away, mov
ing between the tables toward the doors into the entrance hall, still
absorbed in his own examination paper. Roundshouldered yet angu
lar, he walked in a twitchy manner that recalled a spider, his oily hair
swinging about his face.
A gang of chattering girls separated Snape from James and Sirius,
and by planting himself in the midst of this group, Harry managed to
keep Snape in sight while straining his ears to catch the voices of
James and his friends.
Did you like question ten, Moony? asked Sirius as they emerged
into the entrance hall.
Loved it, said Lupin briskly.  Give five signs that identify the
werewolf. Excellent question.
Dyou think you managed to get all the signs? said James in tones
of mock concern.
Think I did, said Lupin seriously, as they joined the crowd throng
ing around the front doors eager to get out into the sunlit grounds.
One Hes sitting on my chair. Two Hes wearing my clothes. Three
His names Remus Lupin . . .
Wormtail was the only one who didnt laugh.
I got the snout shape, the pupils of the eyes, and the tufted tail,
he said anxiously, but I couldnt think what else 
How thick are you, Wormtail? said James impatiently. You run
round with a werewolf once a month 
Keep your voice down, implored Lupin.
Harry looked anxiously behind him again. Snape remained close
by, still buried in his examination questions but this was Snapes
memory, and Harry was sure that if Snape chose to wander off in a


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
different direction once outside in the grounds, he, Harry, would not
be able to follow James any farther. To his intense relief, however,
when James and his three friends strode off down the lawn toward the
lake, Snape followed, still poring over the paper and apparently with
no fixed idea of where he was going. By jogging a little ahead of him,
Harry managed to maintain a close watch on James and the others.
Well, I thought that paper was a piece of cake, he heard Sirius say.
Ill be surprised if I dont get Outstanding on it at least.
Me too, said James. He put his hand in his pocket and took out
a struggling Golden Snitch.
Whered you get that?
Nicked it, said James casually. He started playing with the Snitch,
allowing it to fly as much as a foot away and seizing it again his re
flexes were excellent. Wormtail watched him in awe.
They stopped in the shade of the very same beech tree on the edge
of the lake where Harry, Ron, and Hermione had spent a Sunday fin
ishing their homework, and threw themselves down on the grass.
Harry looked over his shoulder yet again and saw, to his delight,
that Snape had settled himself on the grass in the dense shadows of a
clump of bushes. He was as deeply immersed in the O.W.L. paper as
ever, which left Harry free to sit down on the grass between the beech
and the bushes and watch the foursome under the tree.
The sunlight was dazzling on the smooth surface of the lake, on the
bank of which the group of laughing girls who had just left the Great
Hall were sitting with shoes and socks off, cooling their feet in the
water.
Lupin had pulled out a book and was reading. Sirius stared around
at the students milling over the grass, looking rather haughty and
bored, but very handsomely so. James was still playing with the
Snitch, letting it zoom farther and farther away, almost escaping but
always grabbed at the last second. Wormtail was watching him with
his mouth open. Every time James made a particularly difficult catch,


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
Wormtail gasped and applauded. After five minutes of this, Harry
wondered why James didnt tell Wormtail to get a grip on himself, but
James seemed to be enjoying the attention. Harry noticed his father
had a habit of rumpling up his hair as though to make sure it did not
get too tidy, and also that he kept looking over at the girls by the wa
ters edge.
Put that away, will you? said Sirius finally, as James made a fine
catch and Wormtail let out a cheer. Before Wormtail wets himself
from excitement.
Wormtail turned slightly pink but James grinned.
If it bothers you, he said, stuffing the Snitch back in his pocket.
Harry had the distinct impression that Sirius was the only one for
whom James would have stopped showing off.
Im bored, said Sirius. Wish it was full moon.
You might, said Lupin darkly from behind his book. Weve still
got Transfiguration, if youre bored you could test me. . . . Here. He
held out his book.
Sirius snorted. I dont need to look at that rubbish, I know it all.
Thisll liven you up, Padfoot, said James quietly. Look who it
is. . . .
Siriuss head turned. He had become very still, like a dog that has
scented a rabbit.
Excellent, he said softly. Snivellus.
Harry turned to see what Sirius was looking at.
Snape was on his feet again, and was stowing the O.W.L. paper in
his bag. As he emerged from the shadows of the bushes and set off
across the grass, Sirius and James stood up. Lupin and Wormtail re
mained sitting Lupin was still staring down at his book, though his
eyes were not moving and a faint frown line had appeared between his
eyebrows. Wormtail was looking from Sirius and James to Snape with
a look of avid anticipation on his face.
All right, Snivellus? said James loudly.


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
Snape reacted so fast it was as though he had been expecting an at
tack Dropping his bag, he plunged his hand inside his robes, and his
wand was halfway into the air when James shouted, Expelliarmus!
Snapes wand flew twelve feet into the air and fell with a little thud
in the grass behind him. Sirius let out a bark of laughter.
Impedimenta! he said, pointing his wand at Snape, who was
knocked off his feet, halfway through a dive toward his own fallen
wand.
Students all around had turned to watch. Some of them had gotten
to their feet and were edging nearer to watch. Some looked apprehen
sive, others entertained.
Snape lay panting on the ground. James and Sirius advanced on
him, wands up, James glancing over his shoulder at the girls at the wa
ters edge as he went. Wormtail was on his feet now, watching hun
grily, edging around Lupin to get a clearer view.
Howd the exam go, Snivelly? said James.
I was watching him, his nose was touching the parchment, said
Sirius viciously. Therell be great grease marks all over it, they wont
be able to read a word.
Several people watching laughed Snape was clearly unpopular.
Wormtail sniggered shrilly. Snape was trying to get up, but the jinx
was still operating on him he was struggling, as though bound by in
visible ropes.
You  wait, he panted, staring up at James with an expression of
purest loathing. You  wait. . . .
Wait for what? said Sirius coolly. Whatre you going to do, Sniv
elly, wipe your nose on us?
Snape let out a stream of mixed swearwords and hexes, but his
wand being ten feet away nothing happened.
Wash out your mouth, said James coldly. Scourgify!
Pink soap bubbles streamed from Snapes mouth at once the froth
was covering his lips, making him gag, choking him 


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
Leave him ALONE!
James and Sirius looked around. Jamess free hand jumped to his
hair again.
It was one of the girls from the lake edge. She had thick, dark red
hair that fell to her shoulders and startlingly green almondshaped
eyes  Harrys eyes.
Harrys mother . . .
All right, Evans? said James, and the tone of his voice was sud
denly pleasant, deeper, more mature.
Leave him alone, Lily repeated. She was looking at James with
every sign of great dislike. Whats he done to you?
Well, said James, appearing to deliberate the point, its more the
fact that he exists, if you know what I mean. . . .
Many of the surrounding watchers laughed, Sirius and Wormtail
included, but Lupin, still apparently intent on his book, didnt, and
neither did Lily.
You think youre funny, she said coldly. But youre just an arro
gant, bullying toerag, Potter. Leave him alone.
I will if you go out with me, Evans, said James quickly. Go on
. . . Go out with me, and Ill never lay a wand on old Snivelly again.
Behind him, the Impediment Jinx was wearing off. Snape was be
ginning to inch toward his fallen wand, spitting out soapsuds as he
crawled.
I wouldnt go out with you if it was a choice between you and the
giant squid, said Lily.
Bad luck, Prongs, said Sirius briskly, turning back to Snape. OY!
But too late Snape had directed his wand straight at James there
was a flash of light and a gash appeared on the side of Jamess face,
spattering his robes with blood. James whirled about a second flash of
light later, Snape was hanging upside down in the air, his robes falling
over his head to reveal skinny, pallid legs and a pair of graying
underpants.


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
Many people in the small crowd watching cheered. Sirius, James,
and Wormtail roared with laughter.
Lily, whose furious expression had twitched for an instant as
though she was going to smile, said, Let him down!
Certainly, said James and he jerked his wand upward. Snape fell
into a crumpled heap on the ground. Disentangling himself from his
robes, he got quickly to his feet, wand up, but Sirius said, Petrificus
Totalus! and Snape keeled over again at once, rigid as a board.
LEAVE HIM ALONE! Lily shouted. She had her own wand out
now. James and Sirius eyed it warily.
Ah, Evans, dont make me hex you, said James earnestly.
Take the curse off him, then!
James sighed deeply, then turned to Snape and muttered the
countercurse.
There you go, he said, as Snape struggled to his feet again, youre
lucky Evans was here, Snivellus 
I dont need help from filthy little Mudbloods like her!
Lily blinked. Fine, she said coolly. I wont bother in future. And
Id wash your pants if I were you, Snivellus.
Apologize to Evans! James roared at Snape, his wand pointed
threateningly at him.
I dont want you to make him apologize, Lily shouted, rounding
on James. Youre as bad as he is. . . .
What? yelped James. Id NEVER call you a  youknowwhat!
Messing up your hair because you think it looks cool to look like
youve just got off your broomstick, showing off with that stupid
Snitch, walking down corridors and hexing anyone who annoys you
just because you can  Im surprised your broomstick can get off the
ground with that fat head on it. You make me SICK.
She turned on her heel and hurried away.
Evans! James shouted after her, Hey, EVANS!
But she didnt look back.


SNAPES WORST
MEMORY
What is it with her? said James, trying and failing to look as
though this was a throwaway question of no real importance to him.
Reading between the lines, Id say she thinks youre a bit conceited,
mate, said Sirius.
Right, said James, who looked furious now, right 
There was another flash of light, and Snape was once again hang
ing upside down in the air.
Who wants to see me take off Snivellys pants?
But whether James really did take off Snapes pants, Harry never
found out. A hand had closed tight over his upper arm, closed with a
pincerlike grip. Wincing, Harry looked around to see who had hold of
him, and saw, with a thrill of horror, a fully grown, adultsized Snape
standing right beside him, white with rage.
Having fun?
Harry felt himself rising into the air. The summers day evaporated
around him, he was floating upward through icy blackness, Snapes
hand still tight upon his upper arm. Then, with a swooping feeling as
though he had turned head over heels in midair, his feet hit the stone
floor of Snapes dungeon, and he was standing again beside the Pen
sieve on Snapes desk in the shadowy, presentday Potions masters
study.
So, said Snape, gripping Harrys arm so tightly Harrys hand was
starting to feel numb. So . . . been enjoying yourself, Potter?
Nno . . . said Harry, trying to free his arm.
It was scary Snapes lips were shaking, his face was white, his teeth
were bared.
Amusing man, your father, wasnt he? said Snape, shaking Harry
so hard that his glasses slipped down his nose.
I  didnt 
Snape threw Harry from him with all his might. Harry fell hard
onto the dungeon floor.
You will not tell anybody what you saw! Snape bellowed.


CHAPTER TWENTYEIGHT
No, said Harry, getting to his feet as far from Snape as he could.
No, of course I w 
Get out, get out, I dont want to see you in this office ever again!
And as Harry hurtled toward the door, a jar of dead cockroaches
exploded over his head. He wrenched the door open and flew away up
the corridor, stopping only when he had put three floors between
himself and Snape. There he leaned against the wall, panting, and
rubbing his bruised arm.
He had no desire at all to return to Gryffindor Tower so early, nor
to tell Ron and Hermione what he had just seen. What was making
Harry feel so horrified and unhappy was not being shouted at or hav
ing jars thrown at him  it was that he knew how it felt to be humil
iated in the middle of a circle of onlookers, knew exactly how Snape
had felt as his father had taunted him, and that judging from what he
had just seen, his father had been every bit as arrogant as Snape had al
ways told him.


C H A P T E R T W E N T Y  N I N E
CAREER ADVICE
B
ut why havent you got Occlumency lessons anymore? said Her
mione, frowning.
Ive told you, Harry muttered. Snape reckons I can carry on by
myself now Ive got the basics. . . .
So youve stopped having funny dreams? said Hermione skepti
cally.
Pretty much, said Harry, not looking at her.
Well, I dont think Snape should stop until youre absolutely sure
you can control them! said Hermione indignantly. Harry, I think
you should go back to him and ask 
No, said Harry forcefully. Just drop it, Hermione, okay?
It was the first day of the Easter holidays and Hermione, as was her
custom, had spent a large part of the day drawing up study schedules
for the three of them. Harry and Ron had let her do it  it was easier
than arguing with her and, in any case, they might come in useful.
Ron had been startled to discover that there were only six weeks left
until their exams.


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
How can that come as a shock? Hermione demanded, as she
tapped each little square on Rons schedule with her wand so that it
flashed a different color according to its subject.
I dunno . . . said Ron, theres been a lot going on. . . .
Well, there you are, she said, handing him his schedule, if you
follow that you should do fine.
Ron looked down it gloomily, but then brightened.
Youve given me an evening off every week!
Thats for Quidditch practice, said Hermione.
The smile faded from Rons face.
Whats the point? he said. Weve got about as much chance of
winning the Quidditch Cup this year as Dads got of becoming Min
ister of Magic. . . .
Hermione said nothing. She was looking at Harry, who was staring
blankly at the opposite wall of the common room while Crookshanks
pawed at his hand, trying to get his ears scratched.
Whats wrong, Harry?
What? he said quickly. Nothing . . .
He seized his copy of Defensive Magical Theory and pretended to be
looking something up in the index. Crookshanks gave him up as a bad
job and slunk away under Hermiones chair.
I saw Cho earlier, said Hermione tentatively, and she looked re
ally miserable too. . . . Have you two had a row again?
Wha  oh yeah, we have, said Harry, seizing gratefully on the
excuse.
What about?
That sneak friend of hers, Marietta, said Harry.
Yeah, well, I dont blame you! said Ron angrily, setting down his
study schedule. If it hadnt been for her . . .
Ron went into a rant about Marietta Edgecombe, which Harry
found helpful. All he had to do was look angry, nod, and say yeah


CAREER ADVICE
and thats right whenever Ron drew breath, leaving his mind free to
dwell, ever more miserably, on what he had seen in the Pensieve.
He felt as though the memory of it was eating him from inside.
He had been so sure that his parents had been wonderful people that
he never had the slightest difficulty in disbelieving Snapes aspersions
on his fathers character. Hadnt people like Hagrid and Sirius told
Harry how wonderful his father had been? Yeah, well, look what
Sirius was like himself, said a nagging voice inside Harrys head. . . .
He was as bad, wasnt he? Yes, he had once overheard Professor
McGonagall saying that his father and Sirius had been troublemak
ers at school, but she had described them as forerunners of the
Weasley twins, and Harry could not imagine Fred and George dan
gling someone upside down for the fun of it . . . not unless they re
ally loathed them . . . Perhaps Malfoy, or somebody who really
deserved it . . .
Harry tried to make a case for Snape having deserved what he had
suffered at Jamess hands  but hadnt Lily asked, Whats he done to
you? And hadnt James replied, Its more the fact that he exists, if you
know what I mean? Hadnt James started it all simply because Sirius
said he was bored? Harry remembered Lupin saying back in Grim
mauld Place that Dumbledore had made him prefect in the hope that
he would be able to exercise some control over James and Sirius. . . .
But in the Pensieve, he had sat there and let it all happen. . . .
Harry reminded himself that Lily had intervened his mother had
been decent, yet the memory of the look on her face as she had
shouted at James disturbed him quite as much as anything else. She
had clearly loathed James and Harry simply could not understand
how they could have ended up married. Once or twice he even won
dered whether James had forced her into it. . . .
For nearly five years the thought of his father had been a source of
comfort, of inspiration. Whenever someone had told him he was like


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
James he had glowed with pride inside. And now . . . now he felt cold
and miserable at the thought of him.
The weather grew breezier, brighter, and warmer as the holidays
passed, but Harry was stuck with the rest of the fifth and seventh
years, who were all trapped inside, traipsing back and forth to the li
brary. Harry pretended that his bad mood had no other cause but the
approaching exams, and as his fellow Gryffindors were sick of study
ing themselves, his excuse went unchallenged.
Harry, Im talking to you, can you hear me?
Huh?
He looked around. Ginny Weasley, looking very windswept, had
joined him at the library table where he had been sitting alone. It was
late on Sunday evening Hermione had gone back to Gryffindor
Tower to review Ancient Runes Ron had Quidditch practice.
Oh hi, said Harry, pulling his books back toward him. How
come youre not at practice?
Its over, said Ginny. Ron had to take Jack Sloper up to the hos
pital wing.
Why?
Well, were not sure, but we think he knocked himself out with his
own bat. She sighed heavily. Anyway . . . a package just arrived, its
only just got through Umbridges new screening process. . . .
She hoisted a box wrapped in brown paper onto the table it had
clearly been unwrapped and carelessly rewrapped, and there was a
scribbled note across it in red ink, reading inspected and passed by
the hogwarts high inquisitor.
Its Easter eggs from Mum, said Ginny. Theres one for you. . . .
There you go. . . .
She handed him a handsome chocolate egg decorated with small,
iced Snitches and, according to the packaging, containing a bag of
Fizzing Whizbees. Harry looked at it for a moment, then, to his hor
ror, felt a hard lump rise in his throat.


CAREER ADVICE
Are you okay, Harry? asked Ginny quietly.
Yeah, Im fine, said Harry gruffly. The lump in his throat was
painful. He did not understand why an Easter egg should have made
him feel like this.
You seem really down lately, Ginny persisted. You know, Im
sure if you just talked to Cho . . .
Its not Cho I want to talk to, said Harry brusquely.
Who is it, then? asked Ginny.
I . . .
He glanced around to make quite sure that nobody was listening
Madam Pince was several shelves away, stamping out a pile of books
for a franticlooking Hannah Abbott.
I wish I could talk to Sirius, he muttered. But I know I cant.
More to give himself something to do than because he really
wanted any, Harry unwrapped his Easter egg, broke off a large bit,
and put it into his mouth.
Well, said Ginny slowly, helping herself to a bit of egg too, if
you really want to talk to Sirius, I expect we could think of a way to
do it. . . .
Come on, said Harry hopelessly. With Umbridge policing the
fires and reading all our mail?
The thing about growing up with Fred and George, said Ginny
thoughtfully, is that you sort of start thinking anythings possible if
youve got enough nerve.
Harry looked at her. Perhaps it was the effect of the chocolate 
Lupin had always advised eating some after encounters with demen
tors  or simply because he had finally spoken aloud the wish that had
been burning inside him for a week, but he felt a bit more hopeful. . . .
WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU ARE DOING?
Oh damn, whispered Ginny, jumping to her feet. I forgot 
Madam Pince was swooping down upon them, her shriveled face
contorted with rage.


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
Chocolate in the library! she screamed. Out  out  OUT!
And whipping out her wand, she caused Harrys books, bag, and
ink bottle to chase him and Ginny from the library, whacking them
repeatedly over the head as they ran.
As though to underline the importance of their upcoming examina
tions, a batch of pamphlets, leaflets, and notices concerning various
Wizarding careers appeared on the tables in Gryffindor Tower shortly
before the end of the holidays, along with yet another notice on the
board, which read
CAREER ADVICE
All fifth years will be required to attend a short meeting
with their Head of House during the first week of the Sum
mer term, in which they will be given the opportunity to
discuss their future careers. Times of individual appoint
ments are listed below.
Harry looked down the list and found that he was expected in Pro
fessor McGonagalls office at halfpast two on Monday, which would
mean missing most of Divination. He and the other fifth years spent
a considerable part of the final weekend of the Easter break reading all
the career information that had been left there for their perusal.
Well, I dont fancy Healing, said Ron on the last evening of the
holidays. He was immersed in a leaflet that carried the crossed bone
andwand emblem of St. Mungos on its front. It says here you need
at least an E at N.E.W.T. level in Potions, Herbology, Transfiguration,
Charms, and Defense Against the Dark Arts. I mean . . . blimey. . . .
Dont want much, do they?
Well, its a very responsible job, isnt it? said Hermione absently.
She was poring over a bright pinkandorange leaflet that was headed
so you think youd like to work in muggle relations? You dont


CAREER ADVICE
seem to need many qualifications to liaise with Muggles. . . . All they
want is an O.W.L. in Muggle Studies. . . .  Much more important is your
enthusiasm, patience, and a good sense of fun! 
Youd need more than a good sense of fun to liaise with my uncle,
said Harry darkly. Good sense of when to duck, more like . . . He
was halfway through a pamphlet on Wizard banking. Listen to this
  Are you seeking a challenging career involving travel, adventure, and
substantial, dangerrelated treasure bonuses? Then consider a position
with Gringotts Wizarding Bank, who are currently recruiting Curse
Breakers for thrilling opportunities abroad. . . . They want Arithmancy,
though. . . . You could do it, Hermione!
I dont much fancy banking, said Hermione vaguely, now im
mersed in have you got what it takes to train security trolls?
Hey, said a voice in Harrys ear. He looked around Fred and
George had come to join them. Ginnys had a word with us about
you, said Fred, stretching out his legs on the table in front of them
and causing several booklets on careers with the Ministry of Magic to
slide off onto the floor. She says you need to talk to Sirius?
What? said Hermione sharply, freezing with her hand halfway
toward picking up make a bang at the department of magical
accidents and catastrophes.
Yeah . . . said Harry, trying to sound casual, yeah, I thought Id
like 
Dont be so ridiculous, said Hermione, straightening up and
looking at him as though she could not believe her eyes. With Um
bridge groping around in the fires and frisking all the owls?
Well, we think we can find a way around that, said George,
stretching and smiling. Its a simple matter of causing a diversion.
Now, you might have noticed that we have been rather quiet on the
mayhem front during the Easter holidays?
What was the point, we asked ourselves, of disrupting leisure
time? continued Fred. No point at all, we answered ourselves. And


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
of course, wed have messed up peoples studying too, which would be
the very last thing wed want to do.
He gave Hermione a sanctimonious little nod. She looked rather
taken aback by this thoughtfulness.
But its business as usual from tomorrow, Fred continued briskly.
And if were going to be causing a bit of uproar, why not do it so that
Harry can have his chat with Sirius?
Yes, but still, said Hermione with an air of explaining something
very simple to somebody very obtuse, even if you do cause a diver
sion, how is Harry supposed to talk to him?
Umbridges office, said Harry quietly.
He had been thinking about it for a fortnight and could think of no
alternative Umbridge herself had told him that the only fire that was
not being watched was her own.
Are  you  insane? said Hermione in a hushed voice.
Ron had lowered his leaflet on jobs in the cultivated fungus trade
and was watching the conversation warily.
I dont think so, said Harry, shrugging.
And how are you going to get in there in the first place?
Harry was ready for this question.
Siriuss knife, he said.
Excuse me?
Christmas before last Sirius gave me a knife thatll open any lock,
said Harry. So even if shes bewitched the door so Alohomora wont
work, which I bet she has 
What do you think about this? Hermione demanded of Ron, and
Harry was reminded irresistibly of Mrs. Weasley appealing to her hus
band during Harrys first dinner in Grimmauld Place.
I dunno, said Ron, looking alarmed at being asked to give an
opinion. If Harry wants to do it, its up to him, isnt it?
Spoken like a true friend and Weasley, said Fred, clapping Ron
hard on the back. Right, then. Were thinking of doing it tomorrow,


CAREER ADVICE
just after lessons, because it should cause maximum impact if every
bodys in the corridors  Harry, well set it off in the east wing some
where, draw her right away from her own office  I reckon we
should be able to guarantee you, what, twenty minutes? he said,
looking at George.
Easy, said George.
What sort of diversion is it? asked Ron.
Youll see, little bro, said Fred, as he and George got up again.
At least, you will if you trot along to Gregory the Smarmys corridor
round about five oclock tomorrow.
Harry awoke very early the next day, feeling almost as anxious as he
had done on the morning of his hearing at the Ministry of Magic. It
was not only the prospect of breaking into Umbridges office and us
ing her fire to speak to Sirius that was making him feel nervous,
though that was certainly bad enough  today also happened to be
the first time he would be in close proximity with Snape since Snape
had thrown him out of his office, as they had Potions that day.
After lying in bed for a while thinking about the day ahead, Harry
got up very quietly and moved across to the window beside Nevilles
bed, staring out on a truly glorious morning. The sky was a clear,
misty, opalescent blue. Directly ahead of him, Harry could see the
towering beech tree below which his father had once tormented
Snape. He was not sure what Sirius could possibly say to him that
would make up for what he had seen in the Pensieve, but he was des
perate to hear Siriuss own account of what had happened, to know of
any mitigating factors there might have been, any excuse at all for his
fathers behavior. . . .
Something caught Harrys attention movement on the edge of the
Forbidden Forest. Harry squinted into the sun and saw Hagrid
emerging from between the trees. He seemed to be limping. As Harry
watched, Hagrid staggered to the door of his cabin and disappeared


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
inside it. Harry watched the cabin for several minutes. Hagrid did not
emerge again, but smoke furled from the chimney, so Hagrid could
not be so badly injured that he was unequal to stoking the fire. . . .
Harry turned away from the window, headed back to his trunk, and
started to dress.
With the prospect of forcing entry into Umbridges office ahead,
Harry had never expected the day to be a restful one, but he had not
reckoned on Hermiones almost continual attempts to dissuade him
from what he was planning to do at five oclock. For the first time ever,
she was at least as inattentive to Professor Binns in History of Magic
as Harry and Ron were, keeping up a stream of whispered admoni
tions that Harry tried very hard to ignore.
. . . and if she does catch you there, apart from being expelled, shell
be able to guess youve been talking to Snuffles and this time I expect
shell force you to drink Veritaserum and answer her questions. . . .
Hermione, said Ron in a low and indignant voice, are you going
to stop telling Harry off and listen to Binns, or am I going to have to
take notes instead?
You take notes for a change, it wont kill you!
By the time they reached the dungeons, neither Harry nor Ron was
speaking to Hermione any longer. Undeterred, she took advantage of
their silence to maintain an uninterrupted flow of dire warnings, all
uttered under her breath in a vehement hiss that caused Seamus to
waste five whole minutes checking his cauldron for leaks.
Snape, meanwhile, seemed to have decided to act as though Harry
were invisible. Harry was, of course, well used to this tactic, as it was
one of Uncle Vernons favorites, and on the whole was grateful he had
to suffer nothing worse. In fact, compared to what he usually had to
endure from Snape in the way of taunts and snide remarks, he found
the new approach something of an improvement and was pleased to
find that when left well alone, he was able to concoct an Invigoration
Draught quite easily. At the end of the lesson he scooped some of the


CAREER ADVICE
potion into a flask, corked it, and took it up to Snapes desk for mark
ing, feeling that he might at last have scraped an E.
He had just turned away when he heard a smashing noise Malfoy
gave a gleeful yell of laughter. Harry whipped around again. His po
tion sample lay in pieces on the floor, and Snape was watching him
with a look of gloating pleasure.
Whoops, he said softly. Another zero, then, Potter . . .
Harry was too incensed to speak. He strode back to his cauldron,
intending to fill another flask and force Snape to mark it, but saw to
his horror that the rest of the contents had vanished.
Im sorry! said Hermione with her hands over her mouth. Im
really sorry, Harry, I thought youd finished, so I cleared up!
Harry could not bring himself to answer. When the bell rang he
hurried out of the dungeon without a backward glance and made sure
that he found himself a seat between Neville and Seamus for lunch so
that Hermione could not start nagging him about using Umbridges
office again.
He was in such a bad mood by the time that he got to Divination
that he had quite forgotten his career appointment with Professor
McGonagall, remembering only when Ron asked him why he wasnt
in her office. He hurtled back upstairs and arrived out of breath, only
a few minutes late.
Sorry, Professor, he panted, as he closed the door. I forgot. . . .
No matter, Potter, she said briskly, but as she spoke, somebody
else sniffed from the corner. Harry looked around.
Professor Umbridge was sitting there, a clipboard on her knee, a
fussy little piefrill around her neck, and a small, horribly smug smile
on her face.
Sit down, Potter, said Professor McGonagall tersely. Her hands
shook slightly as she shuffled the many pamphlets littering her desk.
Harry sat down with his back to Umbridge and did his best to pre
tend he could not hear the scratching of her quill on her clipboard.


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
Well, Potter, this meeting is to talk over any career ideas you might
have, and to help you decide which subjects you should continue into
sixth and seventh years, said Professor McGonagall. Have you had
any thoughts about what you would like to do after you leave
Hogwarts?
Er, said Harry.
He was finding the scratching noise from behind him very dis
tracting.
Yes? Professor McGonagall prompted Harry.
Well, I thought of, maybe, being an Auror, Harry mumbled.
Youd need top grades for that, said Professor McGonagall, ex
tracting a small, dark leaflet from under the mass on her desk and
opening it. They ask for a minimum of five N.E.W.T.s, and nothing
under Exceeds Expectations grade, I see. Then you would be re
quired to undergo a stringent series of character and aptitude tests at
the Auror office. Its a difficult career path, Potter they only take the
best. In fact, I dont think anybody has been taken on in the last three
years.
At this moment Professor Umbridge gave a very tiny cough, as
though she was trying to see how quietly she could do it. Professor
McGonagall ignored her.
Youll want to know which subjects you ought to take, I suppose?
she went on, talking a little more loudly than before.
Yes, said Harry. Defense Against the Dark Arts, I suppose?
Naturally, said Professor McGonagall crisply. I would also
advise 
Professor Umbridge gave another cough, a little more audible this
time. Professor McGonagall closed her eyes for a moment, opened
them again, and continued as though nothing had happened.
I would also advise Transfiguration, because Aurors frequently
need to Transfigure or Untransfigure in their work. And I ought to tell
you now, Potter, that I do not accept students into my N.E.W.T.


CAREER ADVICE
classes unless they have achieved Exceeds Expectations or higher at
Ordinary Wizarding Level. Id say youre averaging Acceptable at the
moment, so youll need to put in some good hard work before the ex
ams to stand a chance of continuing. Then you ought to do Charms,
always useful, and Potions. Yes, Potter, Potions, she added, with the
merest flicker of a smile. Poisons and antidotes are essential study for
Aurors. And I must tell you that Professor Snape absolutely refuses to
take students who get anything other than Outstanding in their
O.W.L.s, so 
Professor Umbridge gave her most pronounced cough yet.
May I offer you a cough drop, Dolores? Professor McGonagall
asked curtly, without looking at Professor Umbridge.
Oh no, thank you very much, said Umbridge, with that simper
ing laugh Harry hated so much. I just wondered whether I could
make the teensiest interruption, Minerva?
I daresay youll find you can, said Professor McGonagall through
tightly gritted teeth.
I was just wondering whether Mr. Potter has quite the tempera
ment for an Auror? said Professor Umbridge sweetly.
Were you? said Professor McGonagall haughtily. Well, Potter,
she continued, as though there had been no interruption, if you are
serious in this ambition, I would advise you to concentrate hard on
bringing your Transfiguration and Potions up to scratch. I see Profes
sor Flitwick has graded you between Acceptable and Exceeds Expec
tations for the last two years, so your Charm work seems satisfactory
as for Defense Against the Dark Arts, your marks have been generally
high, Professor Lupin in particular thought you  are you quite sure
you wouldnt like a cough drop, Dolores?
Oh, no need, thank you, Minerva, simpered Professor Um
bridge, who had just coughed her loudest yet. I was just concerned
that you might not have Harrys most recent Defense Against the
Dark Arts marks in front of you. Im quite sure I slipped in a note . . .


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
What, this thing? said Professor McGonagall in a tone of revul
sion, as she pulled a sheet of pink parchment from between the leaves
of Harrys folder. She glanced down it, her eyebrows slightly raised,
then placed it back into the folder without comment.
Yes, as I was saying, Potter, Professor Lupin thought you showed a
pronounced aptitude for the subject, and obviously for an Auror 
Did you not understand my note, Minerva? asked Professor Um
bridge in honeyed tones, quite forgetting to cough.
Of course I understood it, said Professor McGonagall, her teeth
clenched so tightly that the words came out a little muffled.
Well, then, I am confused. . . . Im afraid I dont quite understand
how you can give Mr. Potter false hope that 
False hope? repeated Professor McGonagall, still refusing to look
round at Professor Umbridge. He has achieved high marks in all his
Defense Against the Dark Arts tests 
Im terribly sorry to have to contradict you, Minerva, but as you
will see from my note, Harry has been achieving very poor results in
his classes with me 
I should have made my meaning plainer, said Professor McGo
nagall, turning at last to look Umbridge directly in the eyes. He has
achieved high marks in all Defense Against the Dark Arts tests set by
a competent teacher.
Professor Umbridges smile vanished as suddenly as a lightbulb
blowing. She sat back in her chair, turned a sheet on her clipboard,
and began scribbling very fast indeed, her bulging eyes rolling from
side to side. Professor McGonagall turned back to Harry, her thin
nostrils flared, her eyes burning.
Any questions, Potter?
Yes, said Harry. What sort of character and aptitude tests do the
Ministry do on you, if you get enough N.E.W.T.s?
Well, youll need to demonstrate the ability to react well to pres


CAREER ADVICE
sure and so forth, said Professor McGonagall, perseverance and ded
ication, because Auror training takes a further three years, not to men
tion very high skills in practical defense. It will mean a lot more study
even after youve left school, so unless youre prepared to 
I think youll also find, said Umbridge, her voice very cold now,
that the Ministry looks into the records of those applying to be Au
rora. Their criminal records.
 unless youre prepared to take even more exams after Hog
warts, you should really look at another 
 which means that this boy has as much chance of becoming an
Auror as Dumbledore has of ever returning to this school.
A very good chance, then, said Professor McGonagall.
Potter has a criminal record, said Umbridge loudly.
Potter has been cleared of all charges, said Professor McGonagall,
even more loudly.
Professor Umbridge stood up. She was so short that this did not
make a great deal of difference, but her fussy, simpering demeanor
had given place to a hard fury that made her broad, flabby face look
oddly sinister.
Potter has no chance whatsoever of becoming an Auror!
Professor McGonagall got to her feet too, and in her case this was a
much more impressive move. She towered over Professor Umbridge.
Potter, she said in ringing tones, I will assist you to become an
Auror if it is the last thing I do! If I have to coach you nightly I will
make sure you achieve the required results!
The Minister of Magic will never employ Harry Potter! said Um
bridge, her voice rising furiously.
There may well be a new Minister of Magic by the time Potter is
ready to join! shouted Professor McGonagall.
Aha! shrieked Professor Umbridge, pointing a stubby finger at
McGonagall. Yes! Yes, yes, yes! Of course! Thats what you want, isnt


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
it, Minerva McGonagall? You want Cornelius Fudge replaced by Al
bus Dumbledore! You think youll be where I am, dont you, Senior
Undersecretary to the Minister and headmistress to boot!
You are raving, said Professor McGonagall, superbly disdainful.
Potter, that concludes our career consultation.
Harry swung his bag over his shoulder and hurried out of the
room, not daring to look at Umbridge. He could hear her and Profes
sor McGonagall continuing to shout at each other all the way back
along the corridor.
Professor Umbridge was still breathing as though she had just run
a race when she strode into their Defense Against the Dark Arts lesson
that afternoon.
I hope youve thought better of what you were planning to do,
Harry, Hermione whispered, the moment they had opened their
books to chapter thirtyfour NonRetaliation and Negotiation.
Umbridge looks like shes in a really bad mood already. . . .
Every now and then Umbridge shot glowering looks at Harry, who
kept his head down, staring at Defensive Magical Theory, his eyes un
focused, thinking. . . .
He could just imagine Professor McGonagalls reaction if he were
caught trespassing in Professor Umbridges office mere hours after she
had vouched for him. . . . There was nothing to stop him simply go
ing back to Gryffindor Tower and hoping that sometime during the
next summer holiday he would have a chance to ask Sirius about the
scene he had witnessed in the Pensieve. . . . Nothing, except that
the thought of taking this sensible course of action made him feel as
though a lead weight had dropped into his stomach. . . . And then
there was the matter of Fred and George, whose diversion was already
planned, not to mention the knife Sirius had given him, which was
currently residing in his schoolbag along with his fathers old Invisi
bility Cloak. . . .


CAREER ADVICE
But the fact remained that if he were caught . . .
Dumbledore sacrificed himself to keep you in school, Harry!
whispered Hermione, raising her book to hide her face from Um
bridge. And if you get thrown out today it will all have been for
nothing!
He could abandon the plan and simply learn to live with the mem
ory of what his father had done on a summers day more than twenty
years ago. . . .
And then he remembered Sirius in the fire upstairs in the Gryffin
dor common room. . . .Youre less like your father than I thought.
. . . The risk wouldve been what made it fun for James. . . .
But did he want to be like his father anymore?
Harry, dont do it, please dont do it! Hermione said in anguished
tones as the bell rang at the end of the class.
He did not answer he did not know what to do. Ron seemed de
termined to give neither his opinion nor his advice. He would not
look at Harry, though when Hermione opened her mouth to try dis
suading Harry some more, he said in a low voice, Give it a rest, okay?
He can make up his own mind.
Harrys heart beat very fast as he left the classroom. He was halfway
along the corridor outside when he heard the unmistakable sounds of
a diversion going off in the distance. There were screams and yells
reverberating from somewhere above them. People exiting the class
rooms all around Harry were stopping in their tracks and looking up
at the ceiling fearfully 
Then Umbridge came pelting out of her classroom as fast as her
short legs would carry her. Pulling out her wand, she hurried off in the
opposite direction It was now or never.
Harry  please! said Hermione weakly.
But he had made up his mind  hitching his bag more securely
onto his shoulder he set off at a run, weaving in and out of students


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
now hurrying in the opposite direction, off to see what all the fuss was
about in the east wing. . . .
Harry reached the corridor where Umbridges office was situated
and found it deserted. Dashing behind a large suit of armor whose
helmet creaked around to watch him, he pulled open his bag, seized
Siriuss knife, and donned the Invisibility Cloak. He then crept slowly
and carefully back out from behind the suit of armor and along the
corridor until he reached Umbridges door.
He inserted the blade of the magical knife into the crack around it
and moved it gently up and down, then withdrew it. There was a tiny
click, and the door swung open. He ducked inside the office, closed
the door quickly behind him, and looked around.
It was empty nothing was moving except the horrible kittens on
the plates continuing to frolic on the wall above the confiscated
broomsticks.
Harry pulled off his cloak and, striding over to the fireplace, found
what he was looking for within seconds a small box containing glit
tering Floo powder.
He crouched down in front of the empty grate, his hands shaking.
He had never done this before, though he thought he knew how it
must work. Sticking his head into the fireplace, he took a large pinch
of powder and dropped it onto the logs stacked neatly beneath him.
They exploded at once into emeraldgreen flames.
Number twelve, Grimmauld Place! Harry said loudly and clearly.
It was one of the most curious sensations he had ever experienced
he had traveled by Floo powder before, of course, but then it had been
his entire body that had spun around and around in the flames through
the network of Wizarding fireplaces that stretched over the country
This time, his knees remained firm upon the cold floor of Umbridges
office, and only his head hurtled through the emerald fire. . . .
And then, abruptly as it had begun, the spinning stopped. Feeling


CAREER ADVICE
rather sick and as though he was wearing an exceptionally hot muffler
around his head, Harry opened his eyes to find that he was looking up
out of the kitchen fireplace at the long, wooden table, where a man sat
poring over a piece of parchment.
Sirius?
The man jumped and looked around. It was not Sirius, but Lupin.
Harry! he said, looking thoroughly shocked. What are you 
whats happened, is everything all right?
Yeah, said Harry. I just wondered  I mean, I just fancied a 
a chat with Sirius.
Ill call him, said Lupin, getting to his feet, still looking perplexed.
He went upstairs to look for Kreacher, he seems to be hiding in the at
tic again. . . .
And Harry saw Lupin hurry out of the kitchen. Now he was left
with nothing to look at but the chair and table legs. He wondered why
Sirius had never mentioned how very uncomfortable it was to speak
out of the fire  his knees were already objecting painfully to their
prolonged contact with Umbridges hard stone floor.
Lupin returned with Sirius at his heels moments later.
What is it? said Sirius urgently, sweeping his long dark hair out
of his eyes and dropping to the ground in front of the fire, so that he
and Harry were on a level Lupin knelt down too, looking very con
cerned. Are you all right? Do you need help?
No, said Harry, its nothing like that. . . . I just wanted to talk
. . . about my dad. . . .
They exchanged a look of great surprise, but Harry did not have
time to feel awkward or embarrassed his knees were becoming sorer
by the second, and he guessed that five minutes had already passed
from the start of the diversion  George had only guaranteed him
twenty. He therefore plunged immediately into the story of what he
had seen in the Pensieve.


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
When he had finished, neither Sirius nor Lupin spoke for a mo
ment. Then Lupin said quietly, I wouldnt like you to judge your
father on what you saw there, Harry. He was only fifteen 
Im fifteen! said Harry heatedly.
Look, Harry, said Sirius placatingly, James and Snape hated each
other from the moment they set eyes on each other, it was just one of
those things, you can understand that, cant you? I think James was
everything Snape wanted to be  he was popular, he was good at
Quidditch, good at pretty much everything. And Snape was just this
little oddball who was up to his eyes in the Dark Arts and James 
whatever else he may have appeared to you, Harry  always hated
the Dark Arts.
Yeah, said Harry, but he just attacked Snape for no good reason,
just because  well, just because you said you were bored, he fin
ished with a slightly apologetic note in his voice.
Im not proud of it, said Sirius quickly.
Lupin looked sideways at Sirius and then said, Look, Harry, what
youve got to understand is that your father and Sirius were the best in
the school at whatever they did  everyone thought they were the
height of cool  if they sometimes got a bit carried away 
If we were sometimes arrogant little berks, you mean, said Sirius.
Lupin smiled.
He kept messing up his hair, said Harry in a pained voice.
Sirius and Lupin laughed.
Id forgotten he used to do that, said Sirius affectionately.
Was he playing with the Snitch? said Lupin eagerly.
Yeah, said Harry, watching uncomprehendingly as Sirius and
Lupin beamed reminiscently. Well . . . I thought he was a bit of an
idiot.
Of course he was a bit of an idiot! said Sirius bracingly. We were
all idiots! Well  not Moony so much, he said fairly, looking at
Lupin, but Lupin shook his head.


CAREER ADVICE
Did I ever tell you to lay off Snape? he said. Did I ever have the
guts to tell you I thought you were out of order?
Yeah, well, said Sirius, you made us feel ashamed of ourselves
sometimes. . . . That was something. . . .
And, said Harry doggedly, determined to say everything that was
on his mind now he was here, he kept looking over at the girls by the
lake, hoping they were watching him!
Oh, well, he always made a fool of himself whenever Lily was
around, said Sirius, shrugging. He couldnt stop himself showing off
whenever he got near her.
How come she married him? Harry asked miserably. She hated
him!
Nah, she didnt, said Sirius.
She started going out with him in seventh year, said Lupin.
Once James had deflated his head a bit, said Sirius.
And stopped hexing people just for the fun of it, said Lupin.
Even Snape? said Harry.
Well, said Lupin slowly, Snape was a special case. I mean, he
never lost an opportunity to curse James, so you couldnt really expect
James to take that lying down, could you?
And my mum was okay with that?
She didnt know too much about it, to tell you the truth, said Sir
ius. I mean, James didnt take Snape on dates with her and jinx him
in front of her, did he?
Sirius frowned at Harry, who was still looking unconvinced.
Look, he said, your father was the best friend I ever had, and he
was a good person. A lot of people are idiots at the age of fifteen. He
grew out of it.
Yeah, okay, said Harry heavily. I just never thought Id feel sorry
for Snape.
Now you mention it, said Lupin, a faint crease between his eye
brows, how did Snape react when he found youd seen all this?


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
He told me hed never teach me Occlumency again, said Harry
indifferently, like thats a big disappoint 
He WHAT? shouted Sirius, causing Harry to jump and inhale a
mouthful of ashes.
Are you serious, Harry? said Lupin quickly. Hes stopped giving
you lessons?
Yeah, said Harry, surprised at what he considered a great overreac
tion. But its okay, I dont care, its a bit of a relief to tell you the 
Im coming up there to have a word with Snape! said Sirius force
fully and he actually made to stand up, but Lupin wrenched him back
down again.
If anyones going to tell Snape it will be me! he said firmly. But
Harry, first of all, youre to go back to Snape and tell him that on no ac
count is he to stop giving you lessons  when Dumbledore hears 
I cant tell him that, hed kill me! said Harry, outraged. You
didnt see him when we got out of the Pensieve 
Harry, there is nothing so important as you learning Occlu
mency! said Lupin sternly. Do you understand me? Nothing!
Okay, okay, said Harry, thoroughly discomposed, not to mention
annoyed. Ill . . . Ill try and say something to him. . . . But it wont
be . . .
He fell silent. He could hear distant footsteps.
Is that Kreacher coming downstairs?
No, said Sirius, glancing behind him. It must be somebody your
end . . .
Harrys heart skipped several beats.
Id better go! he said hastily and he pulled his head backward out
of Grimmauld Places fire. For a moment his head seemed to be re
volving on his shoulders, and then he found himself kneeling in front
of Umbridges fire with his head firmly back on, watching the emerald
flames flicker and die.


CAREER ADVICE
Quickly, quickly! he heard a wheezy voice mutter right outside
the office door. Ah, shes left it open. . . .
Harry dived for the Invisibility Cloak and had just managed to pull
it back over himself when Filch burst into the office. He looked ab
solutely delighted about something and was talking to himself fever
ishly as he crossed the room, pulled open a drawer in Umbridges
desk, and began rifling through the papers inside it.
Approval for Whipping . . . Approval for Whipping . . . I can do it
at last. . . . Theyve had it coming to them for years. . . .
He pulled out a piece of parchment, kissed it, then shuffled rapidly
back out of the door, clutching it to his chest.
Harry leapt to his feet and, making sure that he had his bag and the
Invisibility Cloak was completely covering him, he wrenched open
the door and hurried out of the office after Filch, who was hobbling
along faster than Harry had ever seen him go.
One landing down from Umbridges office and Harry thought it
was safe to become visible again he pulled off the cloak, shoved it in
his bag and hurried onward. There was a great deal of shouting and
movement coming from the entrance hall. He ran down the marble
staircase and found what looked like most of the school assembled
there.
It was just like the night when Trelawney had been sacked. Stu
dents were standing all around the walls in a great ring some of them,
Harry noticed, covered in a substance that looked very like Stinksap
teachers and ghosts were also in the crowd. Prominent among the on
lookers were members of the Inquisitorial Squad, who were all look
ing exceptionally pleased with themselves, and Peeves, who was
bobbing overhead, gazed down upon Fred and George, who stood in
the middle of the floor with the unmistakable look of two people who
had just been cornered.
So! said Umbridge triumphantly, whom Harry realized was


CHAPTER TWENTYNINE
standing just a few stairs in front of him, once more looking down
upon her prey. So . . . you think it amusing to turn a school corridor
into a swamp, do you?
Pretty amusing, yeah, said Fred, looking back up at her without
the slightest sign of fear.
Filch elbowed his way closer to Umbridge, almost crying with
happiness.
Ive got the form, Headmistress, he said hoarsely, waving the
piece of parchment Harry had just seen him take from her desk. Ive
got the form and Ive got the whips waiting. . . . Oh, let me do it
now. . . .
Very good, Argus, she said. You two, she went on, gazing down
at Fred and George, are about to learn what happens to wrongdoers
in my school.
You know what? said Fred. I dont think we are.
He turned to his twin.
George, said Fred, I think weve outgrown fulltime education.
Yeah, Ive been feeling that way myself, said George lightly.
Time to test our talents in the real world, dyou reckon? asked
Fred.
Definitely, said George.
And before Umbridge could say a word, they raised their wands
and said together, Accio Brooms!
Harry heard a loud crash somewhere in the distance. Looking to
his left he ducked just in time  Fred and Georges broomsticks,
one still trailing the heavy chain and iron peg with which Umbridge
had fastened them to the wall, were hurtling along the corridor to
ward their owners. They turned left, streaked down the stairs, and
stopped sharply in front of the twins, the chain clattering loudly on
the flagged stone floor.
We wont be seeing you, Fred told Professor Umbridge, swinging
his leg over his broomstick.


CAREER ADVICE
Yeah, dont bother to keep in touch, said George, mounting his
own.
Fred looked around at the assembled students, and at the silent,
watchful crowd.
If anyone fancies buying a Portable Swamp, as demonstrated up
stairs, come to number ninetythree, Diagon Alley  Weasleys Wiz
arding Wheezes, he said in a loud voice. Our new premises!
Special discounts to Hogwarts students who swear theyre going to
use our products to get rid of this old bat, added George, pointing at
Professor Umbridge.
STOP THEM! shrieked Umbridge, but it was too late. As the In
quisitorial Squad closed in, Fred and George kicked off from the floor,
shooting fifteen feet into the air, the iron peg swinging dangerously
below. Fred looked across the hall at the poltergeist bobbing on his
level above the crowd.
Give her hell from us, Peeves.
And Peeves, whom Harry had never seen take an order from a stu
dent before, swept his belled hat from his head and sprang to a salute
as Fred and George wheeled about to tumultuous applause from the
students below and sped out of the open front doors into the glorious
sunset.


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y
GRAWP
T
he story of Fred and Georges flight to freedom was retold so of
ten over the next few days that Harry could tell it would soon
become the stuff of Hogwarts legend. Within a week, even those who
had been eyewitnesses were halfconvinced that they had seen the
twins divebomb Umbridge on their brooms, pelting her with Dung
bombs before zooming out of the doors. In the immediate aftermath
of their departure there was a great wave of talk about copying them,
so that Harry frequently heard students saying things like, Honestly,
some days I just feel like jumping on my broom and leaving this
place, or else, One more lesson like that and I might just do a
Weasley. . . .
Fred and George had made sure that nobody was likely to forget
them very soon. For one thing, they had not left instructions on how
to remove the swamp that now filled the corridor on the fifth floor of
the east wing. Umbridge and Filch had been observed trying different
means of removing it but without success. Eventually the area was
roped off and Filch, gnashing his teeth furiously, was given the task of
punting students across it to their classrooms. Harry was certain that


GRAWP
teachers like McGonagall or Flitwick could have removed the swamp
in an instant, but just as in the case of Fred and Georges Wildfire
WhizBangs, they seemed to prefer to watch Umbridge struggle.
Then there were the two large broomshaped holes in Umbridges
office door, through which Fred and Georges Cleansweeps had
smashed to rejoin their masters. Filch fitted a new door and removed
Harrys Firebolt to the dungeons where, it was rumored, Umbridge
had set an armed security troll to guard it. However, her troubles were
far from over.
Inspired by Fred and Georges example, a great number of students
were now vying for the newly vacant positions of Troublemakersin
Chief. In spite of the new door, somebody managed to slip a hairy
snouted niffler into Umbridges office, which promptly tore the place
apart in its search for shiny objects, leapt on Umbridge on her reen
trance, and tried to gnaw the rings off her stubby fingers. Dungbombs
and Stinkpellets were dropped so frequently in the corridors that it be
came the new fashion for students to perform BubbleHead Charms
on themselves before leaving lessons, which ensured them a supply of
fresh clean air, even though it gave them all the peculiar appearance of
wearing upsidedown goldfish bowls on their heads.
Filch prowled the corridors with a horsewhip ready in his hands,
desperate to catch miscreants, but the problem was that there were
now so many of them that he did not know which way to turn. The
Inquisitorial Squad were attempting to help him, but odd things kept
happening to its members. Warrington of the Slytherin Quidditch
team reported to the hospital wing with a horrible skin complaint that
made him look as though he had been coated in cornflakes. Pansy
Parkinson, to Hermiones delight, missed all her lessons the following
day, as she had sprouted antlers.
Meanwhile it became clear just how many Skiving Snackboxes Fred
and George had managed to sell before leaving Hogwarts. Umbridge
only had to enter her classroom for the students assembled there to


CHAPTER THIRTY
faint, vomit, develop dangerous fevers, or else spout blood from both
nostrils. Shrieking with rage and frustration she attempted to trace the
mysterious symptoms to their source, but the students told her stub
bornly they were suffering Umbridgeitis. After putting four succes
sive classes in detention and failing to discover their secret she was
forced to give up and allow the bleeding, swooning, sweating, and
vomiting students to leave her classes in droves.
But not even the users of the Snackboxes could compete with that
master of chaos, Peeves, who seemed to have taken Freds parting
words deeply to heart. Cackling madly, he soared through the school,
upending tables, bursting out of blackboards, and toppling statues
and vases. Twice he shut Mrs. Norris inside suits of armor, from which
she was rescued, yowling loudly, by the furious caretaker. He smashed
lanterns and snuffed out candles, juggled burning torches over the
heads of screaming students, caused neatly stacked piles of parchment
to topple into fires or out of windows, flooded the second floor when
he pulled off all the taps in the bathrooms, dropped a bag of tarantu
las in the middle of the Great Hall during breakfast and, whenever he
fancied a break, spent hours at a time floating along after Umbridge
and blowing loud raspberries every time she spoke.
None of the staff but Filch seemed to be stirring themselves to help
her. Indeed, a week after Fred and Georges departure Harry witnessed
Professor McGonagall walking right past Peeves, who was deter
minedly loosening a crystal chandelier, and could have sworn he heard
her tell the poltergeist out of the corner of her mouth, It unscrews
the other way.
To cap matters, Montague had still not recovered from his sojourn
in the toilet. He remained confused and disorientated and his parents
were to be observed one Tuesday morning striding up the front drive,
looking extremely angry.
Should we say something? said Hermione in a worried voice,
pressing her cheek against the Charms window so that she could see


GRAWP
Mr. and Mrs. Montague marching inside. About what happened to
him? In case it helps Madam Pomfrey cure him?
 Course not, hell recover, said Ron indifferently.
Anyway, more trouble for Umbridge, isnt it? said Harry in a sat
isfied voice.
He and Ron both tapped the teacups they were supposed to be
charming with their wands. Harrys spouted four very short legs that
would not reach the desk and wriggled pointlessly in midair. Rons
grew four very thin spindly legs that hoisted the cup off the desk with
great difficulty, trembled for a few seconds, then folded, causing the
cup to crack into two.
Reparo! said Hermione quickly, mending Rons cup with a wave
of her wand. Thats all very well, but what if Montagues perma
nently injured?
Who cares? said Ron irritably, while his teacup stood drunkenly
again, trembling violently at the knees. Montague shouldnt have
tried to take all those points from Gryffindor, should he? If you want
to worry about anyone, Hermione, worry about me!
You? she said, catching her teacup as it scampered happily away
across the desk on four sturdy little willowpatterned legs and replac
ing it in front of her. Why should I be worried about you?
When Mums next letter finally gets through Umbridges screen
ing process, said Ron bitterly, now holding his cup up while its frail
legs tried feebly to support its weight, Im going to be in deep trou
ble. I wouldnt be surprised if shes sent a Howler again.
But 
Itll be my fault Fred and George left, you wait, said Ron darkly.
Shell say I shouldve stopped them leaving, I shouldve grabbed the
ends of their brooms and hung on or something. . . . Yeah, itll be all
my fault. . . .
Well, if she does say that itll be very unfair, you couldnt have done
anything! But Im sure she wont, I mean, if its really true theyve got


CHAPTER THIRTY
premises in Diagon Alley now, they must have been planning this for
ages. . . .
Yeah, but thats another thing, how did they get premises? said
Ron, hitting his teacup so hard with his wand that its legs collapsed
again and it lay twitching before him. Its a bit dodgy, isnt it? Theyll
need loads of Galleons to afford the rent on a place in Diagon Alley,
shell want to know what theyve been up to, to get their hands on that
sort of gold. . . .
Well, yes, that occurred to me too, said Hermione, allowing her
teacup to jog in neat little circles around Harrys, whose stubby little
legs were still unable to touch the desktop. Ive been wondering
whether Mundungus has persuaded them to sell stolen goods or
something awful. . . .
He hasnt, said Harry curtly.
How do you know? said Ron and Hermione together.
Because  Harry hesitated, but the moment to confess finally
seemed to have come. There was no good to be gained in keeping
silent if it meant anyone suspected that Fred and George were crimi
nals. Because they got the gold from me. I gave them my Triwizard
winnings last June.
There was a shocked silence, then Hermiones teacup jogged right
over the edge of the desk and smashed on the floor.
Oh, Harry, you didnt ! she said.
Yes, I did, said Harry mutinously. And I dont regret it either 
I didnt need the gold, and theyll be great at a joke shop. . . .
But this is excellent! said Ron, looking thrilled. Its all your fault,
Harry  Mum cant blame me at all! Can I tell her?
Yeah, I suppose youd better, said Harry dully.  Specially if she
thinks theyre receiving stolen cauldrons or something. . . .
Hermione said nothing at all for the rest of the lesson, but Harry
had a shrewd suspicion that her selfrestraint was bound to crack be


GRAWP
fore long. Sure enough, once they had left the castle for break and
were standing around in the weak May sunshine, she fixed Harry with
a beady eye and opened her mouth with a determined air.
Harry interrupted her before she had even started.
Its no good nagging me, its done, he said firmly. Fred and
George have got the gold  spent a good bit of it too, by the sounds
of it  and I cant get it back from them and I dont want to. So save
your breath, Hermione.
I wasnt going to say anything about Fred and George! she said in
an injured voice.
Ron snorted disbelievingly and Hermione threw him a very dirty
look.
No, I wasnt! she said angrily. As a matter of fact, I was going to
ask Harry when hes going to go back to Snape and ask for Occlu
mency lessons again!
Harrys heart sank. Once they had exhausted the subject of Fred
and Georges dramatic departure, which admittedly had taken many
hours, Ron and Hermione had wanted to hear news of Sirius. As
Harry had not confided in them the reason he had wanted to talk to
Sirius in the first place, it had been hard to think of things to tell
them. He had ended up saying to them truthfully that Sirius wanted
Harry to resume Occlumency lessons. He had been regretting this
ever since Hermione would not let the subject drop and kept revert
ing to it when Harry least expected it.
You cant tell me youve stopped having funny dreams, Hermione
said now, because Ron told me last night you were muttering in your
sleep again. . . .
Harry threw Ron a furious look. Ron had the grace to look
ashamed of himself.
You were only muttering a bit, he mumbled apologetically.
Something about just a bit farther. 


CHAPTER THIRTY
I dreamed I was watching you lot play Quidditch, Harry lied
brutally. I was trying to get you to stretch out a bit farther to grab the
Quaffle.
Rons ears went red. Harry felt a kind of vindictive pleasure He had
not, of course, dreamed anything of the sort.
Last night he had once again made the journey along the Depart
ment of Mysteries corridor. He had passed through the circular room,
then the room full of clicking and dancing light, until he found him
self again inside that cavernous room full of shelves on which were
ranged dusty glass spheres. . . .
He had hurried straight toward row number ninetyseven, turned
left, and ran along it. . . . It had probably been then that he had spo
ken aloud. . . . Just a bit farther . . . for he could feel his conscious self
struggling to wake . . . and before he had reached the end of the row,
he had found himself lying in bed again, gazing up at the canopy of
his fourposter.
You are trying to block your mind, arent you? said Hermione, look
ing beadily at Harry. You are keeping going with your Occlumency?
Of course I am, said Harry, trying to sound as though this ques
tion was insulting, but not quite meeting her eye. The truth was that
he was so intensely curious about what was hidden in that room full
of dusty orbs that he was quite keen for the dreams to continue.
The problem was that with just under a month to go until the ex
ams and every free moment devoted to studying, his mind seemed
saturated with information when he went to bed so that he found it
very difficult to get to sleep at all. When he did, his overwrought brain
presented him most nights with stupid dreams about the exams. He
also suspected that part of his mind  the part that often spoke in
Hermiones voice  now felt guilty on the occasions it strayed down
that corridor ending in the black door, and sought to wake him before
he could reach journeys end.
You know, said Ron, whose ears were still flaming red, if Mon


GRAWP
tague doesnt recover before Slytherin play Hufflepuff, we might be in
with a chance of winning the Cup.
Yeah, I spose so, said Harry, glad of a change of subject.
I mean, weve won one, lost one  if Slytherin lose to Hufflepuff
next Saturday 
Yeah, thats right, said Harry, losing track of what he was agree
ing to Cho Chang had just walked across the courtyard, deter
minedly not looking at him.
The final match of the Quidditch season, Gryffindor versus Raven
claw, was to take place on the last weekend of May. Although
Slytherin had been narrowly defeated by Hufflepuff in their last
match, Gryffindor was not daring to hope for victory, due mainly
though of course nobody said it to him to Rons abysmal goalkeep
ing record. He, however, seemed to have found a new optimism.
I mean, I cant get any worse, can I? he told Harry and Hermione
grimly over breakfast on the morning of the match. Nothing to lose
now, is there?
You know, said Hermione, as she and Harry walked down to the
pitch a little later in the midst of a very excitable crowd, I think Ron
might do better without Fred and George around. They never exactly
gave him a lot of confidence. . . .
Luna Lovegood overtook them with what appeared to be a live ea
gle perched on top of her head.
Oh gosh, I forgot! said Hermione, watching the eagle flapping its
wings as Luna walked serenely past a group of cackling and pointing
Slytherins. Cho will be playing, wont she?
Harry, who had not forgotten this, merely grunted.
They found seats in the topmost row of the stands. It was a fine,
clear day. Ron could not wish for better, and Harry found himself
hoping against hope that Ron would not give the Slytherins cause for
more rousing choruses of Weasley Is Our King.


CHAPTER THIRTY
Lee Jordan, who had been very dispirited since Fred and George
had left, was commentating as usual. As the teams zoomed out onto
the pitches he named the players with something less than his usual
gusto.
. . . Bradley . . . Davies . . . Chang, he said, and Harry felt his
stomach perform, less of a back flip, more a feeble lurch as Cho
walked out onto the pitch, her shiny black hair rippling in the slight
breeze. He was not sure what he wanted to happen anymore, except
that he could not stand any more rows. Even the sight of her chatting
animatedly to Roger Davies as they prepared to mount their brooms
caused him only a slight twinge of jealousy.
And theyre off! said Lee. And Davies takes the Quaffle immedi
ately, Ravenclaw Captain Davies with the Quaffle, he dodges John
son, he dodges Bell, he dodges Spinnet as well. . . . Hes going straight
for goal! Hes going to shoot  and  and  Lee swore very
loudly. And hes scored.
Harry and Hermione groaned with the rest of the Gryffindors. Pre
dictably, horribly, the Slytherins on the other side of the stands began
to sing
Weasley cannot save a thing,
He cannot block a single ring . . .
Harry, said a hoarse voice in Harrys ear. Hermione . . .
Harry looked around and saw Hagrids enormous bearded face
sticking between the seats apparently he had squeezed his way all
along the row behind, for the first and second years he had just passed
had a ruffled, flattened look about them. For some reason, Hagrid was
bent double as though anxious not to be seen, though he was still at
least four feet taller than everybody else.
Listen, he whispered, can yeh come with me? Now? While evry
ones watchin the match?


GRAWP
Er . . . cant it wait, Hagrid? asked Harry. Till the match is
over?
No, said Hagrid. No, Harry, its gotta be now . . . while evry
ones lookin the other way. . . . Please?
Hagrids nose was gently dripping blood. His eyes were both black
ened. Harry had not seen him this close up since his return to the
school he looked utterly woebegone.
 Course, said Harry at once,  course well come. . . .
He and Hermione edged back along their row of seats, causing
much grumbling among the students who had to stand up for them.
The people in Hagrids row were not complaining, merely attempting
to make themselves as small as possible.
I ppreciate this, you two, I really do, said Hagrid as they reached
the stairs. He kept looking around nervously as they descended to
ward the lawn below. I jus hope she doesn notice us goin. . . .
You mean Umbridge? said Harry. She wont, shes got her whole
Inquisitorial Squad sitting with her, didnt you see? She must be ex
pecting trouble at the match.
Yeah, well, a bit o trouble wouldn hurt, said Hagrid, pausing to
peer around the edge of the stands to make sure the stretch of lawn be
tween there and his cabin was deserted. Give us more time . . .
What is it, Hagrid? said Hermione, looking up at him with a
concerned expression on her face as they hurried across the lawn to
ward the edge of the forest.
Yeh  yehll see in a mo, said Hagrid, looking over his shoulder
as a great roar rose from the stands behind them. Hey  did some
one jus score?
Itll be Ravenclaw, said Harry heavily.
Good . . . good . . . said Hagrid distractedly. Thas good. . . .
They had to jog to keep up with him as he strode across the lawn,
looking around with every other step. When they reached his cabin,
Hermione turned automatically left toward the front door Hagrid,


CHAPTER THIRTY
however, walked straight past it into the shade of the trees on the out
ermost edge of the forest, where he picked up a crossbow that was
leaning against a tree. When he realized they were no longer with him,
he turned.
Were goin in here, he said, jerking his shaggy head behind him.
Into the forest? said Hermione, perplexed.
Yeah, said Hagrid. Cmon now, quick, before were spotted!
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then ducked into the
cover of the trees behind Hagrid, who was already striding away from
them into the green gloom, his crossbow over his arm. Harry and
Hermione ran to catch up with him.
Hagrid, why are you armed? said Harry.
Jus a precaution, said Hagrid, shrugging his massive shoulders.
You didnt bring your crossbow the day you showed us the thes
trals, said Hermione timidly.
Nah, well, we weren goin in so far then, said Hagrid. An any
way, tha was before Firenze left the forest, wasn it?
Why does Firenze leaving make a difference? asked Hermione
curiously.
 Cause the other centaurs are good an riled at me, thas why, said
Hagrid quietly, glancing around. They used ter be  well, yeh
couldn call em friendly  but we got on all righ. Kept emselves to
emselves, bu always turned up if I wanted a word. Not anymore . . .
He sighed deeply.
Firenze said that theyre angry because he went to work for Dum
bledore? Harry asked, tripping on a protruding root because he was
busy watching Hagrids profile.
Yeah, said Hagrid heavily. Well, angry doesn cover it. Ruddy
livid. If I hadn stepped in, I reckon theydve kicked Firenze ter
death 
They attacked him? said Hermione, sounding shocked.


GRAWP
Yep, said Hagrid gruffly, forcing his way through several low
hanging branches. He had half the herd onto him 
And you stopped it? said Harry, amazed and impressed. By
yourself?
 Course I did, couldnt stand by an watch em kill him, could I?
said Hagrid. Lucky I was passin, really . . . an Idve thought Firenze
mighta remembered tha before he started sendin me stupid warnins!
he added hotly and unexpectedly.
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, startled, but Hagrid,
scowling, did not elaborate.
Anyway, he said, breathing a little more heavily than usual, since
then the other centaursve bin livid with me an the trouble is, theyve
got a lot of influence in the forest. . . . Cleverest creatures in here . . .
Is that why were here, Hagrid? asked Hermione. The centaurs?
Ah no, said Hagrid, shaking his head dismissively, no, its not
them. . . . Well, o course, they could complicate the problem, yeah.
. . . But yehll see what I mean in a bit. . . .
On this incomprehensible note he fell silent and forged a little
ahead, taking one stride for every three of theirs, so that they had great
trouble keeping up with him.
The path was becoming increasingly overgrown and the trees grew
so closely together as they walked farther and farther into the forest
that it was as dark as dusk. They were soon a long way past the clear
ing where Hagrid had shown them the thestrals, but Harry felt no
sense of unease until Hagrid stepped unexpectedly off the path and
began wending his way in and out of trees toward the dark heart of
the forest.
Hagrid? said Harry, fighting his way through thickly knotted
brambles over which Hagrid had stepped easily and remembering
very vividly what had happened to him on the other occasions he had
stepped off the forest path. Where are we going?


CHAPTER THIRTY
Bit further, said Hagrid over his shoulder. Cmon, Harry. . . .
We need ter keep together now. . . .
It was a great struggle to keep up with Hagrid, what with branches
and thickets of thorn through which Hagrid marched as easily as
though they were cobwebs, but which snagged Harry and Hermiones
robes, frequently entangling them so severely that they had to stop for
minutes at a time to free themselves. Harrys arms and legs were soon
covered in small cuts and scratches. They were so deep in the forest
now that sometimes all Harry could see of Hagrid in the gloom was a
massive dark shape ahead of him. Any sound seemed threatening in the
muffled silence. The breaking of a twig echoed loudly and the tiniest
rustle of movement, though it might have been made by an innocent
sparrow, caused Harry to peer through the gloom for a culprit. It
occurred to him that he had never managed to get this far into the for
est without meeting some kind of creature  their absence struck him
as rather ominous.
Hagrid, would it be all right if we lit our wands? said Hermione
quietly.
Er . . . all righ, Hagrid whispered back. In fact . . .
He stopped suddenly and turned around Hermione walked right
into him and was knocked over backward. Harry caught her just be
fore she hit the forest floor.
Maybe we bes jus stop fer a momen, so I can . . . fill yeh in, said
Hagrid. Before we ge there, like.
Good! said Hermione, as Harry set her back on her feet. They
both murmured Lumos! and their wand tips ignited. Hagrids face
swam through the gloom by the light of the two wavering beams and
Harry saw that he looked nervous and sad again.
Righ, said Hagrid. Well . . . see . . . the thing is . . .
He took a great breath.
Well, theres a good chance Im goin ter be gettin the sack any day
now, he said.


GRAWP
Harry and Hermione looked at each other, then back at him.
But youve lasted this long  Hermione said tentatively. What
makes you think 
Umbridge reckons it was me that put tha niffler in her office.
And was it? said Harry, before he could stop himself.
No, it ruddy well wasn! said Hagrid indignantly. Ony anythin
ter do with magical creatures an she thinks its got somethin ter do
with me. Yeh know shes bin lookin fer a chance ter get rid of me ever
since I got back. I don wan ter go, o course, but if it wasn fer . . .
well . . . the special circumstances Im abou ter explain to yeh, Id
leave righ now, before shes go the chance ter do it in front o the
whole school, like she did with Trelawney.
Harry and Hermione both made noises of protest, but Hagrid
overrode them with a wave of one of his enormous hands.
Its not the end o the world, Ill be able ter help Dumbledore once
Im outta here, I can be useful ter the Order. An you lotll have
GrubblyPlank, yehll  yehll get through yer exams fine. . . . His
voice trembled and broke.
Don worry abou me, he said hastily, as Hermione made to pat
his arm. He pulled his enormous spotted handkerchief from the
pocket of his waistcoat and mopped his eyes with it. Look, I wouldn
be tellin yer this at all if I didn have ter. See, if I go . . . well, I can
leave withou . . . withou tellin someone . . . because Ill  Ill need
you two ter help me. An Ron, if hes willin.
Of course well help you, said Harry at once. What do you want
us to do?
Hagrid gave a great sniff and patted Harry wordlessly on the shoul
der with such force that Harry was knocked sideways into a tree.
I knew yehd say yes, said Hagrid into his handkerchief, but I
won . . . never . . . forget . . . Well . . . cmon . . . jus a little bit fur
ther through here . . . Watch yerselves, now, theres nettles. . . .
They walked on in silence for another fifteen minutes. Harry had


CHAPTER THIRTY
opened his mouth to ask how much farther they had to go when Ha
grid threw out his right arm to signal that they should stop.
Really easy, he said softly. Very quiet, now . . .
They crept forward and Harry saw that they were facing a large,
smooth mound of earth nearly as tall as Hagrid that he thought, with
a jolt of dread, was sure to be the lair of some enormous animal. Trees
had been ripped up at the roots all around the mound, so that it stood
on a bare patch of ground surrounded by heaps of trunks and boughs
that formed a kind of fence or barricade, behind which Harry,
Hermione, and Hagrid now stood.
Sleepin, breathed Hagrid.
Sure enough, Harry could hear a distant, rhythmic rumbling that
sounded like a pair of enormous lungs at work. He glanced sideways
at Hermione, who was gazing at the mound with her mouth slightly
open. She looked utterly terrified.
Hagrid, she said in a whisper barely audible over the sound of the
sleeping creature, who is he?
Harry found this an odd question. . . . What is it? was the one he
had been planning on asking.
Hagrid, you told us, said Hermione, her wand now shaking in
her hand, you told us none of them wanted to come!
Harry looked from her to Hagrid and then, as realization hit him,
he looked back at the mound with a small gasp of horror.
The great mound of earth, on which he, Hermione, and Hagrid
could easily have stood, was moving slowly up and down in time with
the deep, grunting breathing. It was not a mound at all. It was the
curved back of what was clearly . . .
Well  no  he didn want ter come, said Hagrid, sounding
desperate. But I had ter bring him, Hermione, I had ter!
But why? asked Hermione, who sounded as though she wanted
to cry. Why  what  oh, Hagrid !
I knew if I jus got him back, said Hagrid, sounding close to tears


GRAWP
himself, an  an taught him a few manners  Id be able ter take
him outside an show evryone hes harmless!
Harmless! said Hermione shrilly, and Hagrid made frantic hush
ing noises with his hands as the enormous creature before them
grunted loudly and shifted in its sleep. Hes been hurting you all this
time, hasnt he? Thats why youve had all these injuries!
He don know his own strength! said Hagrid earnestly. An hes
gettin better, hes not fightin so much anymore 
So this is why it took you two months to get home! said
Hermione distractedly. Oh Hagrid, why did you bring him back if
he didnt want to come, wouldnt he have been happier with his own
people?
They were all bullyin him, Hermione, cause hes so small! said
Hagrid.
Small? said Hermione. Small ?
Hermione, I couldn leave him, said Hagrid, tears now trickling
down his bruised face into his beard. See  hes my brother!
Hermione simply stared at him, her mouth open.
Hagrid, when you say brother,  said Harry slowly, do you
mean  ?
Well  halfbrother, amended Hagrid. Turns out me mother
took up with another giant when she left me dad, an she went an had
Grawp here 
Grawp? said Harry.
Yeah . . . well, thas what it sounds like when he says his name,
said Hagrid anxiously. He don speak a lot of English. . . . Ive bin
tryin ter teach him. . . . Anyway, she don seem ter have liked him
much moren she liked me. . . . See, with giantesses, what counts is
producin good big kids, and hes always been a bit on the runty side
fer a giant  ony sixteen foot 
Oh yes, tiny! said Hermione, with a kind of hysterical sarcasm.
Absolutely minuscule!


CHAPTER THIRTY
He was bein kicked around by all o them  I jus couldn leave
him 
Did Madame Maxime want to bring him back? asked Harry.
She  well, she could see it was right importan ter me, said Ha
grid, twisting his enormous hands. Bu  bu she got a bit tired of
him after a while, I must admit . . . so we split up on the journey
home. . . . She promised not ter tell anyone though. . . .
How on earth did you get him back without anyone noticing?
said Harry.
Well, thas why it took so long, see, said Hagrid. Could ony
travel by nigh an through wild country an stuff. Course, he covers
the ground pretty well when he wants ter, but he kep wantin ter go
back. . . .
Oh Hagrid, why on earth didnt you let him! said Hermione,
flopping down onto a rippedup tree and burying her face in her
hands. What do you think youre going to do with a violent giant
who doesnt even want to be here!
Well, now  violent  thas a bit harsh, said Hagrid, still
twisting his hands agitatedly. Ill admit he mighta taken a couple o
swings at me when hes bin in a bad mood, but hes gettin better, loads
better, settlin down well. . . .
What are those ropes for, then? Harry asked.
He had just noticed ropes thick as saplings stretching from around
the trunks of the largest nearby trees toward the place where Grawp
lay curled on the ground with his back to them.
You have to keep him tied up? said Hermione faintly.
Well . . . yeah . . . said Hagrid, looking anxious. See  its like I
say  he doesn really know his strength 
Harry understood now why there had been such a suspicious lack
of any other living creature in this part of the forest.
So what is it you want Harry and Ron and me to do? Hermione
asked apprehensively.


GRAWP
Look after him, said Hagrid croakily. After Im gone.
Harry and Hermione exchanged miserable looks, Harry uncom
fortably aware that he had already promised Hagrid that he would do
whatever he asked.
What  what does that involve, exactly? Hermione inquired.
Not food or anythin! said Hagrid eagerly. He can get his own
food, no problem. Birds an deer an stuff . . . No, its company he
needs. If I jus knew someone was carryin on tryin ter help him a bit
. . . teachin him, yeh know . . .
Harry said nothing, but turned to look back at the gigantic form
lying asleep on the ground in front of them. Grawp had his back to
them. Unlike Hagrid, who simply looked like a very oversize hu
man, Grawp looked strangely misshapen. What Harry had taken to
be a vast mossy boulder to the left of the great earthen mound he
now recognized as Grawps head. It was much larger in proportion to
the body than a human head, almost perfectly round and covered
with tightly curling, closegrowing hair the color of bracken. The
rim of a single large, fleshy ear was visible on top of the head, which
seemed to sit, rather like Uncle Vernons, directly upon the shoulders
with little or no neck in between. The back, under what looked like
a dirty brownish smock comprised of animal skins sewn roughly to
gether, was very broad, and as Grawp slept, it seemed to strain a lit
tle at the rough seams of the skins. The legs were curled up under
the body Harry could see the soles of enormous, filthy, bare feet,
large as sledges, resting one on top of the other on the earthy forest
floor.
You want us to teach him, Harry said in a hollow voice. He now
understood what Firenzes warning had meant. His attempt is not work
ing. He would do better to abandon it. Of course, the other creatures
who lived in the forest would have heard Hagrids fruitless attempts to
teach Grawp English. . . .
Yeah  even if yeh jus talk ter him a bit, said Hagrid hopefully.


CHAPTER THIRTY
 Cause I reckon, if he can talk ter people, hell understand more that
we all like him really, an want him to stay. . . .
Harry looked at Hermione, who peered back at him from between
the fingers over her face.
Kind of makes you wish we had Norbert back, doesnt it? he said
and she gave a very shaky laugh.
Yehll do it, then? said Hagrid, who did not seem to have caught
what Harry had just said.
Well . . . said Harry, already bound by his promise. Well try,
Hagrid. . . .
I knew I could count on yeh, Harry, Hagrid said, beaming in a
very watery way and dabbing at his face with his handkerchief again.
An I don wan yeh ter put yerself out too much, like. . . . I know
yehve got exams. . . . If yeh could jus nip down here in yer Invisibil
ity Cloak maybe once a week an have a little chat with him . . . Ill
wake him up, then  introduce you 
Wha  no! said Hermione, jumping up, Hagrid, no, dont
wake him, really, we dont need 
But Hagrid had already stepped over the great trunk in front of
them and was proceeding toward Grawp. When he was around ten
feet away, he lifted a long, broken bough from the ground, smiled re
assuringly over his shoulder at Harry and Hermione, and then poked
Grawp hard in the middle of the back with the end of the bough.
The giant gave a roar that echoed around the silent forest. Birds in
the treetops overhead rose twittering from their perches and soared
away. In front of Harry and Hermione, meanwhile, the gigantic Grawp
was rising from the ground, which shuddered as he placed an enor
mous hand upon it to push himself onto his knees and turned his head
to see who and what had disturbed him.
All righ, Grawpy? said Hagrid in a wouldbe cheery voice, back
ing away with the long bough raised, ready to poke Grawp again.
Had a nice sleep, eh?


GRAWP
Harry and Hermione retreated as far as they could while still keep
ing the giant within their sights. Grawp knelt between two trees he
had not yet uprooted. They looked up into his startlingly huge face,
which resembled a gray full moon swimming in the gloom of the
clearing. It was as though the features had been hewn onto a great
stone ball. The nose was stubby and shapeless, the mouth lopsided
and full of misshapen yellow teeth the size of halfbricks. The small
eyes were a muddy greenishbrown and just now were half gummed
together with sleep. Grawp raised dirty knuckles as big as cricket balls
to his eyes, rubbed vigorously, then, without warning, pushed himself
to his feet with surprising speed and agility.
Oh my . . . Harry heard Hermione squeal, terrified, beside him.
The trees to which the other ends of the ropes around Grawps
wrists and ankles were attached creaked ominously. He was, as Hagrid
had said, at least sixteen feet tall. Gazing blearily around, he reached
out a hand the size of a beach umbrella, seized a birds nest from the
upper branches of a towering pine and turned it upside down with a
roar of apparent displeasure that there was no bird in it  eggs fell
like grenades toward the ground and Hagrid threw his arms over his
head to protect himself.
Anyway, Grawpy, shouted Hagrid, looking up apprehensively in
case of further falling eggs, Ive brought some friends ter meet yeh.
Remember, I told yeh I might? Remember, when I said I might have
ter go on a little trip an leave them ter look after yeh fer a bit? Re
member that, Grawpy?
But Grawp merely gave another low roar it was hard to say
whether he was listening to Hagrid or whether he even recognized the
sounds Hagrid was making as speech. He had now seized the top of
the pine tree and was pulling it toward him, evidently for the simple
pleasure of seeing how far it would spring back when he let go.
Now, Grawpy, don do that! shouted Hagrid. Thas how you
ended up pullin up the others 


CHAPTER THIRTY
And sure enough, Harry could see the earth around the trees roots
beginning to crack.
I got company fer yeh! Hagrid shouted. Company, see! Look
down, yeh big buffoon, I brought yeh some friends!
Oh Hagrid, dont, moaned Hermione, but Hagrid had already
raised the bough again and gave Grawps knee a sharp poke.
The giant let go of the top of the pine tree, which swayed menac
ingly and deluged Hagrid with a rain of needles, and looked down.
This, said Hagrid, hastening over to where Harry and Hermione
stood, is Harry, Grawp! Harry Potter! He migh be comin ter visit
yeh if I have ter go away, understand?
The giant had only just realized that Harry and Hermione were
there. They watched, in great trepidation, as he lowered his huge boul
der of a head so that he could peer blearily at them.
An this is Hermione, see? Her  Hagrid hesitated. Turning to
Hermione he said, Would yeh mind if he called yeh Hermy, Hermi
one? Ony its a difficult name fer him ter remember. . . .
No, not at all, squeaked Hermione.
This is Hermy, Grawp! An shes gonna be comin an all! Isn tha
nice? Eh? Two friends fer yeh ter  GRAWPY, NO!
Grawps hand had shot out of nowhere toward Hermione  Harry
seized her and pulled her backward behind the tree, so that Grawps
fist scraped the trunk but closed on thin air.
BAD BOY, GRAWPY! Harry heard Hagrid yelling, as Hermione
clung to Harry behind the tree, shaking and whimpering. VERY
BAD BOY! YEH DON GRAB  OUCH!
Harry poked his head out from around the trunk and saw Hagrid
lying on his back, his hand over his nose. Grawp, apparently losing in
terest, had straightened up again and was again engaged in pulling
back the pine as far as it would go.
Righ, said Hagrid thickly, getting up with one hand pinching his


GRAWP
bleeding nose and the other grasping his crossbow. Well . . . there
yeh are. . . . Yehve met him an  an now hell know yeh when yeh
come back. Yeah . . . well . . .
He looked up at Grawp, who was now pulling back the pine with
an expression of detached pleasure on his boulderish face the roots
were creaking as he ripped them away from the ground. . . .
Well, I reckon thas enough fer one day, said Hagrid. Well 
er  well go back now, shall we?
Harry and Hermione nodded. Hagrid shouldered his crossbow
again and, still pinching his nose, led the way back into the trees.
Nobody spoke for a while, not even when they heard the distant
crash that meant Grawp had pulled over the pine tree at last.
Hermiones face was pale and set. Harry could not think of a single
thing to say. What on earth was going to happen when somebody
found out that Hagrid had hidden Grawp in the forest? And he had
promised that he, Ron, and Hermione would continue Hagrids to
tally pointless attempts to civilize the giant. . . . How could Hagrid,
even with his immense capacity to delude himself that fanged mon
sters were lovably harmless, fool himself that Grawp would ever be fit
to mix with humans?
Hold it, said Hagrid abruptly, just as Harry and Hermione were
struggling through a patch of thick knotgrass behind him. He pulled
an arrow out of the quiver over his shoulder and fitted it into the
crossbow. Harry and Hermione raised their wands now that they had
stopped walking, they too could hear movement close by.
Oh blimey, said Hagrid quietly.
I thought that we told you, Hagrid, said a deep male voice, that
you are no longer welcome here?
A mans naked torso seemed for an instant to be floating toward
them through the dappled green halflight. Then they saw that his
waist joined smoothly with a horses chestnut body. This centaur had


CHAPTER THIRTY
a proud, highcheekboned face and long black hair. Like Hagrid, he
was armed A quiverful of arrows and a long bow were slung over his
shoulders.
How are yeh, Magorian? said Hagrid warily.
The trees behind the centaur rustled and four or five more emerged
behind him. Harry recognized the blackbodied and bearded Bane,
whom he had met nearly four years ago on the same night he had met
Firenze. Bane gave no sign that he had ever seen Harry before.
So, he said, with a nasty inflection in his voice, before turning
immediately to Magorian. We agreed, I think, what we would do if
this human showed his face in the forest again?
 This human now, am I? said Hagrid testily. Jus fer stoppin all
of yeh committin murder?
You ought not to have meddled, Hagrid, said Magorian. Our
ways are not yours, nor are our laws. Firenze has betrayed and dis
honored us.
I dunno how yeh work that out, said Hagrid impatiently. Hes
done nothin except help Albus Dumbledore 
Firenze has entered into servitude to humans, said a gray centaur
with a hard, deeply lined face.
Servitude! said Hagrid scathingly. Hes doin Dumbledore a favor
is all 
He is peddling our knowledge and secrets among humans, said
Magorian quietly. There can be no return from such disgrace.
If yeh say so, said Hagrid, shrugging, but personally I think
yehre makin a big mistake 
As are you, human, said Bane, coming back into our forest when
we warned you 
Now, you listen ter me, said Hagrid angrily. Ill have less of the
our forest, if its all the same ter you. Its not up ter you who comes
an goes in here 


GRAWP
No more is it up to you, Hagrid, said Magorian smoothly. I shall
let you pass today because you are accompanied by your young 
Theyre not his! interrupted Bane contemptuously. Students,
Magorian, from up at the school! They have probably already profited
from the traitor Firenzes teachings. . . .
Nevertheless, said Magorian calmly, the slaughter of foals is a
terrible crime. . . . We do not touch the innocent. Today, Hagrid, you
pass. Henceforth, stay away from this place. You forfeited the friend
ship of the centaurs when you helped the traitor Firenze escape us.
I won be kept outta the fores by a bunch of mules like you! said
Hagrid loudly.
Hagrid, said Hermione in a highpitched and terrified voice, as
both Bane and the gray centaur pawed at the ground, lets go, please
lets go!
Hagrid moved forward, but his crossbow was still raised and his
eyes were still fixed threateningly upon Magorian.
We know what you are keeping in the forest, Hagrid! Magorian
called after them, as the centaurs slipped out of sight. And our toler
ance is waning!
Hagrid turned and gave every appearance of wanting to walk
straight back to Magorian again.
Youll tolerate him as long as hes here, its as much his forest as
yours! he yelled, while Harry and Hermione both pushed with all
their might against Hagrids moleskin waistcoat in an effort to keep
him moving forward. Still scowling, he looked down his expression
changed to mild surprise at the sight of them both pushing him. He
seemed not to have felt it.
Calm down, you two, he said, turning to walk on while they
panted along behind him. Ruddy old nags though, eh?
Hagrid, said Hermione breathlessly, skirting the patch of nettles
they had passed on their way there, if the centaurs dont want


CHAPTER THIRTY
humans in the forest, it doesnt really look as though Harry and I will
be able 
Ah, you heard what they said, said Hagrid dismissively They
wouldnt hurt foals  I mean, kids. Anyway, we can let ourselves be
pushed around by that lot. . . .
Nice try, Harry murmured to Hermione, who looked crestfallen.
At last they rejoined the path and after another ten minutes, the
trees began to thin. They were able to see patches of clear blue sky
again and hear, in the distance, the definite sounds of cheering and
shouting.
Was that another goal? asked Hagrid, pausing in the shelter of
the trees as the Quidditch stadium came into view. Or dyou reckon
the match is over?
I dont know, said Hermione miserably. Harry saw that she looked
much the worse for wear her hair was full of bits of twig and leaves,
her robes were ripped in several places and there were numerous
scratches on her face and arms. He knew he could look little better.
I reckon its over, yeh know! said Hagrid, still squinting toward
the stadium. Look  theres people comin out already  if you two
hurry yehll be able ter blend in with the crowd an no onell know you
werent there!
Good idea, said Harry. Well . . . see you later, then, Hagrid. . . .
I dont believe him, said Hermione in a very unsteady voice, the
moment they were out of earshot of Hagrid. I dont believe him. I
really dont believe him. . . .
Calm down, said Harry.
Calm down! she said feverishly. A giant! A giant in the forest!
And were supposed to give him English lessons! Always assuming, of
course, we can get past the herd of murderous centaurs on the way in
and out! I  dont  believe  him!
We havent got to do anything yet! Harry tried to reassure her in


GRAWP
a quiet voice, as they joined a stream of jabbering Hufflepuffs heading
back toward the castle. Hes not asking us to do anything unless he
gets chucked out and that might not even happen 
Oh come off it, Harry! said Hermione angrily, stopping dead in
her tracks so that the people behind her had to swerve to avoid her.
Of course hes going to be chucked out and to be perfectly honest, af
ter what weve just seen, who can blame Umbridge?
There was a pause in which Harry glared at her, and her eyes filled
slowly with tears.
You didnt mean that, said Harry quietly.
No . . . well . . . all right . . . I didnt, she said, wiping her eyes
angrily. But why does he have to make life so difficult for himself 
for us?
I dunno 
Weasley is our King,
Weasley is our King,
He didnt let the Quaffle in,
Weasley is our King . . .
And I wish theyd stop singing that stupid song, said Hermione
miserably, havent they gloated enough?
A great tide of students was moving up the sloping lawns from the
pitch.
Oh, lets get in before we have to meet the Slytherins, said
Hermione.
Weasley can save anything,
He never leaves a single ring
Thats why Gryffindors all sing
Weasley is our King.


CHAPTER THIRTY
Hermione . . . said Harry slowly.
The song was growing louder, but it was issuing not from a crowd
of greenandsilverclad Slytherins, but from a mass of red and gold
moving slowly toward the castle, which was bearing a solitary figure
upon its many shoulders. . . .
Weasley is our King,
Weasley is our King,
He didnt let the Quaffle in,
Weasley is our King . . .
No! said Hermione in a hushed voice.
YES! said Harry loudly.
HARRY! HERMIONE! yelled Ron, waving the silver Quidditch
Cup in the air and looking quite beside himself. WE DID IT! WE
WON!
They beamed up at him as he passed there was a scrum at the door
of the castle and Rons head got rather badly bumped on the lintel, but
nobody seemed to want to put him down. Still singing, the crowd
squeezed itself into the entrance hall and out of sight. Harry and
Hermione watched them go, beaming, until the last echoing strains of
Weasley Is Our King died away. Then they turned to each other,
their smiles fading.
Well save our news till tomorrow, shall we? said Harry.
Yes, all right, said Hermione wearily. Im not in any hurry. . . .
They climbed the steps together. At the front doors both instinc
tively looked back at the Forbidden Forest. Harry was not sure
whether it was his imagination or not, but he rather thought he saw a
small cloud of birds erupting into the air over the treetops in the dis
tance, almost as though the tree in which they had been nesting had
just been pulled up by the roots.


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y  O N E
O.W.L.S
R
ons euphoria at helping Gryffindor scrape the Quidditch Cup
was such that he could not settle to anything next day. All he
wanted to do was talk over the match and Harry and Hermione found
it very difficult to find an opening in which to mention Grawp  not
that either of them tried very hard neither was keen to be the one to
bring Ron back to reality in quite such a brutal fashion. As it was an
other fine, warm day, they persuaded him to join them in studying
under the beech tree on the edge of the lake, where they stood less
chance of being overheard than in the common room. Ron was not
particularly keen on this idea at first he was thoroughly enjoying be
ing patted on the back by Gryffindors walking past his chair, not to
mention the occasional outbursts of Weasley Is Our King, but
agreed after a while that some fresh air might do him good.
They spread their books out in the shade of the beech tree and sat
down while Ron talked them through his first save of the match for
what felt like the dozenth time.
Well, I mean, Id already let in that one of Daviess, so I wasnt feel
ing that confident, but I dunno, when Bradley came toward me, just


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
out of nowhere, I thought  you can do this! And I had about a sec
ond to decide which way to fly, you know, because he looked like he
was aiming for the right goal hoop  my right, obviously, his left 
but I had a funny feeling that he was feinting, and so I took the
chance and flew left  his right, I mean  and  well  you saw
what happened, he concluded modestly, sweeping his hair back quite
unnecessarily so that it looked interestingly windswept and glancing
around to see whether the people nearest to them  a bunch of gos
siping thirdyear Hufflepuffs  had heard him. And then, when
Chambers came at me about five minutes later  what? Ron said,
stopping midsentence at the look on Harrys face. Why are you
grinning?
Im not, said Harry quickly, looking down at his Transfiguration
notes and attempting to straighten his face. The truth was that Ron
had just reminded Harry forcibly of another Gryffindor Quidditch
player who had once sat rumpling his hair under this very tree. Im
just glad we won, thats all.
Yeah, said Ron slowly, savoring the words, we won. Did you see
the look on Changs face when Ginny got the Snitch right out from
under her nose?
I suppose she cried, did she? said Harry bitterly.
Well, yeah  more out of temper than anything, though . . .
Ron frowned slightly. But you saw her chuck her broom away when
she got back to the ground, didnt you?
Er  said Harry.
Well, actually . . . no, Ron, said Hermione with a heavy sigh,
putting down her book and looking at him apologetically. As a mat
ter of fact, the only bit of the match Harry and I saw was Daviess first
goal.
Rons carefully ruffled hair seemed to wilt with disappointment.
You didnt watch? he said faintly, looking from one to the other.
You didnt see me make any of those saves?


O.W.L.S
Well  no, said Hermione, stretching out a placatory hand to
ward him. But Ron, we didnt want to leave  we had to!
Yeah? said Ron, whose face was growing rather red. How come?
It was Hagrid, said Harry. He decided to tell us why hes been
covered in injuries ever since he got back from the giants. He wanted
us to go into the forest with him, we had no choice, you know how he
gets. . . . Anyway . . .
The story was told in five minutes, by the end of which Rons in
dignation had been replaced by a look of total incredulity.
He brought one back and hid it in the forest?
Yep, said Harry grimly.
No, said Ron, as though by saying this he could make it untrue.
No, he cant have. . . .
Well, he has, said Hermione firmly. Grawps about sixteen feet
tall, enjoys ripping up twentyfoot pine trees, and knows me, she
snorted, as Hermy.
Ron gave a nervous laugh.
And Hagrid wants us to . . . ?
Teach him English, yeah, said Harry.
Hes lost his mind, said Ron in an almost awed voice.
Yes, said Hermione irritably, turning a page of Intermediate
Transfiguration and glaring at a series of diagrams showing an owl
turning into a pair of opera glasses. Yes, Im starting to think he has.
But unfortunately, he made Harry and me promise.
Well, youre just going to have to break your promise, thats all,
said Ron firmly. I mean, come on . . . Weve got exams and were
about that far, he held up his hand to show thumb and forefinger a
millimeter apart, from being chucked out as it is. And anyway . . . re
member Norbert? Remember Aragog? Have we ever come off better
for mixing with any of Hagrids monster mates?
I know, its just that  we promised, said Hermione in a small
voice.


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
Ron smoothed his hair flat again, looking preoccupied.
Well, he sighed, Hagrid hasnt been sacked yet, has he? Hes
hung on this long, maybe hell hang on till the end of term and we
wont have to go near Grawp at all.
The castle grounds were gleaming in the sunlight as though freshly
painted the cloudless sky smiled at itself in the smoothly sparkling
lake, the satingreen lawns rippled occasionally in a gentle breeze June
had arrived, but to the fifth years this meant only one thing Their
O.W.L.s were upon them at last.
Their teachers were no longer setting them homework lessons
were devoted to reviewing those topics their teachers thought most
likely to come up in the exams. The purposeful, feverish atmosphere
drove nearly everything but the O.W.L.s from Harrys mind, though
he did wonder occasionally during Potions lessons whether Lupin had
ever told Snape that he must continue giving Harry Occlumency
tuition If he had, then Snape had ignored Lupin as thoroughly as he
was now ignoring Harry. This suited Harry very well he was quite
busy and tense enough without extra classes with Snape, and to his re
lief Hermione was much too preoccupied these days to badger him
about Occlumency. She was spending a lot of time muttering to her
self and had not laid out any elf clothes for days.
She was not the only person acting oddly as the O.W.L.s drew
steadily nearer. Ernie Macmillan had developed an irritating habit of
interrogating people about their study habits.
How many hours dyou think youre doing a day? he demanded
of Harry and Ron as they queued outside Herbology, a manic gleam
in his eyes.
I dunno, said Ron. A few . . .
More or less than eight?
Less, I spose, said Ron, looking slightly alarmed.
Im doing eight, said Ernie, puffing out his chest. Eight or nine.


O.W.L.S
Im getting an hour in before breakfast every day. Eights my average.
I can do ten on a good weekend day. I did nine and a half on Monday.
Not so good on Tuesday  only seven and a quarter. Then on
Wednesday 
Harry was deeply thankful that Professor Sprout ushered them into
greenhouse three at that point, forcing Ernie to abandon his recital.
Meanwhile Draco Malfoy had found a different way to induce
panic.
Of course, its not what you know, he was heard to tell Crabbe
and Goyle loudly outside Potions a few days before the exams were to
start, its who you know. Now, Fathers been friendly with the head of
the Wizarding Examinations Authority for years  old Griselda
Marchbanks  weve had her round for dinner and everything. . . .
Do you think thats true? Hermione whispered to Harry and
Ron, looking frightened.
Nothing we can do about it if it is, said Ron gloomily.
I dont think its true, said Neville quietly from behind them.
Because Griselda Marchbanks is a friend of my grans, and shes never
mentioned the Malfoys.
Whats she like, Neville? asked Hermione at once. Is she strict?
Bit like Gran, really, said Neville in a subdued voice.
Knowing her wont hurt your chances though, will it? Ron told
him encouragingly.
Oh, I dont think it will make any difference, said Neville, still more
miserably. Grans always telling Professor Marchbanks Im not as good
as my dad. . . . Well . . . you saw what shes like at St. Mungos. . . .
Neville looked fixedly at the floor. Harry, Ron, and Hermione
glanced at one another, but didnt know what to say. It was the first
time that Neville had acknowledged that they had met at the Wizard
ing hospital.
Meanwhile a flourishing blackmarket trade in aids to concentra
tion, mental agility, and wakefulness had sprung up among the fifth


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
and seventh years. Harry and Ron were much tempted by the bottle
of Baruffios Brain Elixir offered to them by Ravenclaw sixth year Ed
die Carmichael, who swore it was solely responsible for the nine
Outstanding O.W.L.s he had gained the previous summer and was
offering the whole pint for a mere twelve Galleons. Ron assured Harry
he would reimburse him for his half the moment he left Hogwarts
and got a job, but before they could close the deal, Hermione had
confiscated the bottle from Carmichael and poured the contents
down a toilet.
Hermione, we wanted to buy that! shouted Ron.
Dont be stupid, she snarled. You might as well take Harold
Dingles powdered dragon claw and have done with it.
Dingles got powdered dragon claw? said Ron eagerly.
Not anymore, said Hermione. I confiscated that too. None of
these things actually works you know 
Dragon claw does work! said Ron. Its supposed to be incredible,
really gives your brain a boost, you come over all cunning for a few
hours  Hermione, let me have a pinch, go on, it cant hurt 
This stuff can, said Hermione grimly. Ive had a look at it, and
its actually dried doxy droppings.
This information took the edge off Harry and Rons desire for brain
stimulants.
They received their examination schedules and details of the proce
dure for O.W.L.s during their next Transfiguration lesson.
As you can see, Professor McGonagall told the class while they
copied down the dates and times of their exams from the blackboard,
your O.W.L.s are spread over two successive weeks. You will sit the
theory exams in the mornings and the practice in the afternoons.
Your practical Astronomy examination will, of course, take place at
night.
Now, I must warn you that the most stringent AntiCheating
Charms have been applied to your examination papers. AutoAnswer


O.W.L.S
Quills are banned from the examination hall, as are Remembralls,
Detachable Cribbing Cuffs, and SelfCorrecting Ink. Every year, I am
afraid to say, seems to harbor at least one student who thinks that he
or she can get around the Wizarding Examinations Authoritys rules.
I can only hope that it is nobody in Gryffindor. Our new  head
mistress  Professor McGonagall pronounced the word with the
same look on her face that Aunt Petunia had whenever she was con
templating a particularly stubborn bit of dirt  has asked the Heads
of House to tell their students that cheating will be punished most se
verely  because, of course, your examination results will reflect
upon the headmistresss new regime at the school. . . .
Professor McGonagall gave a tiny sigh. Harry saw the nostrils of
her sharp nose flare.
However, that is no reason not to do your very best. You have your
own futures to think about.
Please, Professor, said Hermione, her hand in the air, when will
we find out our results?
An owl will be sent to you some time in July, said Professor
McGonagall.
Excellent, said Dean Thomas in an audible whisper, so we dont
have to worry about it till the holidays. . . .
Harry imagined sitting in his bedroom in Privet Drive in six weeks
time, waiting for his O.W.L. results. Well, he thought, at least he
would be sure of one bit of post next summer. . . .
Their first exam, Theory of Charms, was scheduled for Monday
morning. Harry agreed to test Hermione after lunch on Sunday but
regretted it almost at once. She was very agitated and kept snatching
the book back from him to check that she had gotten the answer com
pletely right, finally hitting him hard on the nose with the sharp edge
of Achievements in Charming.
Why dont you just do it yourself? he said firmly, handing the
book back to her, his eyes watering.


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
Meanwhile Ron was reading two years of Charms notes with his
fingers in his ears, his lips moving soundlessly Seamus was lying flat
on his back on the floor, reciting the definition of a Substantive
Charm, while Dean checked it against The Standard Book of Spells,
Grade  and Parvati and Lavender, who were practicing basic loco
motion charms, were making their pencil cases race each other around
the edge of the table.
Dinner was a subdued affair that night. Harry and Ron did not talk
much, but ate with gusto, having studied hard all day. Hermione on
the other hand kept putting down her knife and fork and diving un
der the table for her bag, from which she would seize a book to check
some fact or figure. Ron was just telling her that she ought to eat a de
cent meal or she would not sleep that night, when her fork slid from
her limp fingers and landed with a loud tinkle on her plate.
Oh, my goodness, she said faintly, staring into the entrance hall.
Is that them? Is that the examiners?
Harry and Ron whipped around on their bench. Through the
doors to the Great Hall they could see Umbridge standing with a
small group of ancientlooking witches and wizards. Umbridge,
Harry was pleased to see, looked rather nervous.
Shall we go and have a closer look? said Ron.
Harry and Hermione nodded and they hastened toward the double
doors into the entrance hall, slowing down as they stepped over the
threshold to walk sedately past the examiners. Harry thought Profes
sor Marchbanks must be the tiny, stooped witch with a face so lined it
looked as though it had been draped in cobwebs Umbridge was
speaking to her very deferentially. Professor Marchbanks seemed to be
a little deaf she was answering Umbridge very loudly considering that
they were only a foot apart.
Journey was fine, journey was fine, weve made it plenty of times
before! she said impatiently. Now, I havent heard from Dumbledore
lately! she added, peering around the hall as though hopeful he might


O.W.L.S
suddenly emerge from a broom cupboard. No idea where he is, I
suppose?
None at all, said Umbridge, shooting a malevolent look at Harry,
Ron, and Hermione, who were now dawdling around the foot of
the stairs as Ron pretended to do up his shoelace. But I daresay the
Ministry of Magic will track him down soon enough. . . .
I doubt it, shouted tiny Professor Marchbanks, not if Dumble
dore doesnt want to be found! I should know. . . . Examined him
personally in Transfiguration and Charms when he did N.E.W.T.s . . .
Did things with a wand Id never seen before . . .
Yes . . . well . . . said Professor Umbridge as Harry, Ron, and
Hermione dragged their feet up the marble staircase as slowly as they
dared, let me show you to the staffroom . . . I daresay youd like a cup
of tea after your journey. . . .
It was an uncomfortable sort of an evening. Everyone was trying to
do some lastminute studying but nobody seemed to be getting very
far. Harry went to bed early but then lay awake for what felt like
hours. He remembered his careers consultation and McGonagalls fu
rious declaration that she would help him become an Auror if it was
the last thing she did. . . . He wished he had expressed a more achiev
able ambition now that exam time was here. . . . He knew that he was
not the only one lying awake, but none of the others in the dormitory
spoke and finally, one by one, they fell asleep.
None of the fifth years talked very much at breakfast next day ei
ther. Parvati was practicing incantations under her breath while the
salt cellar in front of her twitched, Hermione was rereading Achieve
ment in Charming so fast that her eyes appeared blurred, and Neville
kept dropping his knife and fork and knocking over the marmalade.
Once breakfast was over, the fifth and seventh years milled around
in the entrance hall while the other students went off to lessons. Then,
at halfpast nine, they were called forward class by class to reenter the
Great Hall, which was now arranged exactly as Harry had seen it in


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
the Pensieve when his father, Sirius, and Snape had been taking their
O.W.L.s. The four House tables had been removed and replaced in
stead with many tables for one, all facing the stafftable end of the
Hall where Professor McGonagall stood facing them. When they were
all seated and quiet she said, You may begin, and turned over an
enormous hourglass on the desk beside her, on which were also spare
quills, ink bottles, and rolls of parchment.
Harry turned over his paper, his heart thumping hard. . . . Three
rows to his right and four seats ahead, Hermione was already scrib
bling. . . . He lowered his eyes to the first question a Give the incanta
tion, and b describe the wand movement required to make objects fly. . . .
Harry had a fleeting memory of a club soaring high into the air and
landing loudly on the thick skull of a troll. . . . Smiling slightly, he
bent over the paper and began to write. . . .
Well, it wasnt too bad, was it? asked Hermione anxiously in the en
trance hall two hours later, still clutching the exam paper. Im not
sure I did myself justice on Cheering Charms, I just ran out of
time  did you put in the countercharm for hiccups? I wasnt sure
whether I ought to, it felt like too much  and on question twenty
three 
Hermione, said Ron sternly, weve been through this before. . . .
Were not going through every exam afterward, its bad enough doing
them once.
The fifth years ate lunch with the rest of the school the four House
tables reappeared over the lunch hour and then trooped off into the
small chamber beside the Great Hall, where they were to wait until
called for their practical examination. As small groups of students
were called forward in alphabetical order, those left behind muttered
incantations and practiced wand movements, occasionally poking one
another in the back or eye by mistake.
Hermiones name was called. Trembling, she left the chamber with


O.W.L.S
Anthony Goldstein, Gregory Goyle, and Daphne Greengrass. Stu
dents who had already been tested did not return afterward, so Harry
and Ron had no idea how Hermione had done.
Shell be fine  remember she got a hundred and twelve percent
on one of our Charms tests? said Ron.
Ten minutes later, Professor Flitwick called, Parkinson, Pansy 
Patil, Padma  Patil, Parvati  Potter, Harry.
Good luck, said Ron quietly. Harry walked into the Great Hall,
clutching his wand so tightly his hand shook.
Professor Tofty is free, Potter, squeaked Professor Flitwick, who
was standing just inside the door. He pointed Harry toward what
looked like the very oldest and baldest examiner, who was sitting be
hind a small table in a far corner, a short distance from Professor
Marchbanks, who was halfway through testing Draco Malfoy.
Potter, is it? said Professor Tofty, consulting his notes and peering
over his pincenez at Harry as he approached. The famous Potter?
Out of the corner of his eye, Harry distinctly saw Malfoy throw a
scathing look over at him the wine glass Malfoy had been levitating
fell to the floor and smashed. Harry could not suppress a grin. Profes
sor Tofty smiled back at him encouragingly.
Thats it, he said in his quavery old voice, no need to be nervous.
. . . Now, if I could ask you to take this eggcup and make it do some
cartwheels for me. . . .
On the whole Harry thought it went rather well his Levitation
Charm was certainly much better than Malfoys had been, though he
wished he had not mixed up the incantations for ColorChange and
Growth Charms, so that the rat he was supposed to be turning orange
swelled shockingly and was the size of a badger before Harry could
rectify his mistake. He was glad Hermione had not been in the Hall at
the time and neglected to mention it to her afterward. He could tell
Ron, though Ron had caused a dinner plate to mutate into a large
mushroom and had no idea how it had happened.


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
There was no time to relax that night  they went straight to the
common room after dinner and submerged themselves in studying for
Transfiguration next day. Harry went to bed, his head buzzing with
complex spell models and theories.
He forgot the definition of a Switching Spell during his written
exam next morning, but thought his practical could have been a lot
worse. At least he managed to vanish the whole of his iguana, whereas
poor Hannah Abbott lost her head completely at the next table and
somehow managed to multiply her ferret into a flock of flamingos,
causing the examination to be halted for ten minutes while the birds
were captured and carried out of the Hall.
They had their Herbology exam on Wednesday other than a small
bite from a Fanged Geranium, Harry felt he had done reasonably
well and then, on Thursday, Defense Against the Dark Arts. Here, for
the first time, Harry felt sure he had passed. He had no problem with
any of the written questions and took particular pleasure, during the
practical examination, in performing all the counterjinxes and defen
sive spells right in front of Umbridge, who was watching coolly from
near the doors into the entrance hall.
Oh bravo! cried Professor Tofty, who was examining Harry again,
when Harry demonstrated a perfect boggart banishing spell. Very
good indeed! Well, I think thats all, Potter . . . unless . . .
He leaned forward a little.
I heard, from my dear friend Tiberius Ogden, that you can pro
duce a Patronus? For a bonus point . . . ?
Harry raised his wand, looked directly at Umbridge, and imagined
her being sacked.
Expecto Patronum!
The silver stag erupted from the end of his wand and cantered the
length of the hall. All of the examiners looked around to watch its
progress and when it dissolved into silver mist, Professor Tofty
clapped his veined and knotted hands enthusiastically.


O.W.L.S
Excellent! he said. Very well, Potter, you may go!
As Harry passed Umbridge beside the door their eyes met. There
was a nasty smile playing around her wide, slack mouth, but he did
not care. Unless he was very much mistaken and he was not planning
on saying it to anybody, in case he was, he had just achieved an Out
standing O.W.L.
On Friday, Harry and Ron had a day off while Hermione sat
her Ancient Runes exam, and as they had the whole weekend in front
of them, they permitted themselves a break from studying. They
stretched and yawned beside the open window, through which warm
summer air wafted over them as they played a desultory game of wiz
ard chess. Harry could see Hagrid in the distance, teaching a class on
the edge of the forest. He was trying to guess what creatures they were
examining  he thought it must be unicorns, because the boys
seemed to be standing back a little  when the portrait hole opened
and Hermione clambered in, looking thoroughly bad tempered.
How were the runes? said Ron, yawning and stretching.
I mistranslated ehwaz,  said Hermione furiously. It means part
nership, not defense, I mixed it up with eihwaz. 
Ah well, said Ron lazily, thats only one mistake, isnt it, youll
still get 
Oh shut up, said Hermione angrily, it could be the one mistake
that makes the difference between a pass and a fail. And whats more,
someones put another niffler in Umbridges office, I dont know how
they got it through that new door, but I just walked past there and
Umbridge is shrieking her head off  by the sound of it, it tried to
take a chunk out of her leg 
Good, said Harry and Ron together.
It is not good! said Hermione hotly. She thinks its Hagrid doing
it, remember? And we do not want Hagrid chucked out!
Hes teaching at the moment, she cant blame him, said Harry,
gesturing out of the window.


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
Oh, youre so naive sometimes, Harry, you really think Umbridge
will wait for proof? said Hermione, who seemed determined to be in
a towering temper, and she swept off toward the girls dormitories,
banging the door behind her.
Such a lovely, sweettempered girl, said Ron, very quietly, prod
ding his queen forward so that she could begin beating up one of
Harrys knights.
Hermiones bad mood persisted for most of the weekend, though
Harry and Ron found it quite easy to ignore as they spent most of
Saturday and Sunday studying for Potions on Monday, the exam to
which Harry was looking forward least and which he was sure would
be the one that would be the downfall of his ambitions to become an
Auror. Sure enough, he found the written exam difficult, though he
thought he might have got full marks on the question about Polyjuice
Potion He could describe its effects extremely accurately, having
taken it illegally in his second year.
The afternoon practical was not as dreadful as he had expected it to
be. With Snape absent from the proceedings he found that he was
much more relaxed than he usually was while making potions. Neville,
who was sitting very near Harry, also looked happier than Harry had
ever seen him during a Potions class. When Professor Marchbanks
said, Step away from your cauldrons, please, the examination is over,
Harry corked his sample flask feeling that he might not have achieved
a good grade but that he had, with luck, avoided a fail.
Only four exams left, said Parvati Patil wearily as they headed
back to Gryffindor common room.
Only! said Hermione snappishly. Ive got Arithmancy and its
probably the toughest subject there is!
Nobody was foolish enough to snap back, so she was unable to vent
her spleen on any of them and was reduced to telling off some first
years for giggling too loudly in the common room.


O.W.L.S
Harry was determined to perform well in Tuesdays Care of Magi
cal Creatures exam so as not to let Hagrid down. The practical exam
ination took place in the afternoon on the lawn on the edge of the
Forbidden Forest, where students were required to correctly identify
the knarl hidden among a dozen hedgehogs the trick was to offer
them all milk in turn knarls, highly suspicious creatures whose quills
had many magical properties, generally went berserk at what they saw
as an attempt to poison them then demonstrate correct handling of
a bowtruckle, feed and clean a firecrab without sustaining serious
burns, and choose, from a wide selection of food, the diet they would
give a sick unicorn.
Harry could see Hagrid watching anxiously out of his cabin win
dow. When Harrys examiner, a plump little witch this time, smiled at
him and told him he could leave, Harry gave Hagrid a fleeting
thumbsup before heading back up to the castle.
The Astronomy theory exam on Wednesday morning went well
enough Harry was not convinced he had got the names of all of
Jupiters moons right, but was at least confident that none of them was
inhabited by mice. They had to wait until evening for their practical
Astronomy the afternoon was devoted instead to Divination.
Even by Harrys low standards in Divination, the exam went very
badly. He might as well have tried to see moving pictures in the desk
top as in the stubbornly blank crystal ball he lost his head completely
during tealeaf reading, saying it looked to him as though Professor
Marchbanks would shortly be meeting a round, dark, soggy stranger,
and rounded off the whole fiasco by mixing up the life and head lines
on her palm and informing her that she ought to have died the previ
ous Tuesday.
Well, we were always going to fail that one, said Ron gloomily as
they ascended the marble staircase. He had just made Harry feel
rather better by telling him how he told the examiner in detail about


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
the ugly man with a wart on his nose in his crystal ball, only to look
up and realize he had been describing his examiners reflection.
We shouldnt have taken the stupid subject in the first place, said
Harry.
Still, at least we can give it up now.
Yeah, said Harry. No more pretending we care what happens
when Jupiter and Uranus get too friendly . . .
And from now on, I dont care if my tea leaves spell die, Ron, die 
Im just chucking them in the bin where they belong.
Harry laughed just as Hermione came running up behind them.
He stopped laughing at once, in case it annoyed her.
Well, I think Ive done all right in Arithmancy, she said, and
Harry and Ron both sighed with relief. Just time for a quick look
over our star charts before dinner, then . . .
When they reached the top of the Astronomy Tower at eleven
oclock they found a perfect night for stargazing, cloudless and still.
The grounds were bathed in silvery moonlight, and there was a slight
chill in the air. Each of them set up his or her telescope and, when
Professor Marchbanks gave the word, proceeded to fill in the blank
star chart he or she had been given.
Professors Marchbanks and Tofty strolled among them, watching
as they entered the precise positions of the stars and planets they were
observing. All was quiet except for the rustle of parchment, the occa
sional creak of a telescope as it was adjusted on its stand, and the scrib
bling of many quills. Half an hour passed, then an hour the little
squares of reflected gold light flickering on the ground below started
to vanish as lights in the castle windows were extinguished.
As Harry completed the constellation Orion on his chart, however,
the front doors of the castle opened directly below the parapet where
he was standing, so that light spilled down the stone steps a little way
across the lawn. Harry glanced down as he made a slight adjustment


O.W.L.S
to the position of his telescope and saw five or six elongated shadows
moving over the brightly lit grass before the doors swung shut and the
lawn became a sea of darkness once more.
Harry put his eye back to his telescope and refocused it, now ex
amining Venus. He looked down at his chart to enter the planet there,
but something distracted him. Pausing with his quill suspended over
the parchment, he squinted down into the shadowy grounds and saw
half a dozen figures walking over the lawn. If they had not been mov
ing, and the moonlight had not been gilding the tops of their heads,
they would have been indistinguishable from the dark ground on
which they stood. Even at this distance, Harry had a funny feeling
that he recognized the walk of the squattest among them, who seemed
to be leading the group.
He could not think why Umbridge would be taking a stroll outside
past midnight, much less accompanied by five others. Then some
body coughed behind him, and he remembered that he was halfway
through an exam. He had quite forgotten Venuss position  jam
ming his eye to his telescope, he found it again and was again on the
point of entering it on his chart when, alert for any odd sound, he
heard a distant knock that echoed through the deserted grounds, fol
lowed immediately by the muffled barking of a large dog.
He looked up, his heart hammering. There were lights on in Ha
grids windows and the people he had observed crossing the lawn were
now silhouetted against them. The door opened and he distinctly saw
six tiny but sharply defined figures walk over the threshold. The door
closed again and there was silence.
Harry felt very uneasy. He glanced around to see whether Ron or
Hermione had noticed what he had, but Professor Marchbanks came
walking behind him at that moment, and not wanting to appear as
though he was sneaking looks at anyone elses work, he hastily bent
over his star chart and pretended to be adding notes to it while really


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
peering over the top of the parapet toward Hagrids cabin. Figures were
now moving across the cabin windows, temporarily blocking the light.
He could feel Professor Marchbankss eyes on the back of his neck
and pressed his eye again to his telescope, staring up at the moon
though he had marked its position an hour ago, but as Professor
Marchbanks moved on he heard a roar from the distant cabin that
echoed through the darkness right to the top of the Astronomy Tower.
Several of the people around Harry ducked out from behind their
telescopes and peered instead in the direction of Hagrids cabin.
Professor Tofty gave another dry little cough.
Try and concentrate, now, boys and girls, he said softly.
Most people returned to their telescopes. Harry looked to his left.
Hermione was gazing transfixed at Hagrids.
Ahem  twenty minutes to go, said Professor Tofty.
Hermione jumped and returned at once to her star chart Harry
looked down at his own and noticed that he had mislabelled Venus as
Mars. He bent to correct it.
There was a loud BANG from the grounds. Several people said
Ouch! as they poked themselves in the face with the ends of their
telescopes, hastening to see what was going on below.
Hagrids door had burst open and by the light flooding out of the
cabin they saw him quite clearly, a massive figure roaring and bran
dishing his fists, surrounded by six people, all of whom, judging by
the tiny threads of red light they were casting in his direction, seemed
to be attempting to Stun him.
No! cried Hermione.
My dear! said Professor Tofty in a scandalized voice. This is an
examination!
But nobody was paying the slightest attention to their star charts
anymore Jets of red light were still flying beside Hagrids cabin, yet
somehow they seemed to be bouncing off him. He was still upright


O.W.L.S
and still, as far as Harry could see, fighting. Cries and yells echoed
across the grounds a man yelled, Be reasonable, Hagrid! and Hagrid
roared, Reasonable be damned, yeh won take me like this, Dawlish!
Harry could see the tiny outline of Fang, attempting to defend Ha
grid, leaping at the wizards surrounding him until a Stunning Spell
caught him and he fell to the ground. Hagrid gave a howl of fury,
lifted the culprit bodily from the ground, and threw him The man
flew what looked like ten feet and did not get up again. Hermione
gasped, both hands over her mouth Harry looked around at Ron and
saw that he too was looking scared. None of them had ever seen Ha
grid in a real temper before. . . .
Look! squealed Parvati, who was leaning over the parapet and
pointing to the foot of the castle where the front doors seemed to have
opened again more light had spilled out onto the dark lawn and a sin
gle long black shadow was now rippling across the lawn.
Now, really! said Professor Tofty anxiously. Only sixteen min
utes left, you know!
But nobody paid him the slightest attention They were watching
the person now sprinting toward the battle beside Hagrids cabin.
How dare you! the figure shouted as she ran. How dare you!
Its McGonagall! whispered Hermione.
Leave him alone! Alone, I say! said Professor McGonagalls voice
through the darkness. On what grounds are you attacking him? He
has done nothing, nothing to warrant such 
Hermione, Parvati, and Lavender all screamed. No fewer than four
Stunners had shot from the figures around the cabin toward Professor
McGonagall. Halfway between cabin and castle the red beams col
lided with her. For a moment she looked luminous, illuminated by an
eerie red glow, then was lifted right off her feet, landed hard on her
back, and moved no more.
Galloping gargoyles! shouted Professor Tofty, who seemed to


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
have forgotten the exam completely. Not so much as a warning! Out
rageous behavior!
COWARDS! bellowed Hagrid, his voice carrying clearly to the
top of the tower, and several lights flickered back on inside the castle.
RUDDY COWARDS! HAVE SOME O THAT  AN THAT 
Oh my  gasped Hermione.
Hagrid took two massive swipes at his closest attackers judging by
their immediate collapse, they had been knocked cold. Harry saw him
double over and thought for a moment that he had finally been over
come by a spell, but on the contrary, next moment Hagrid was stand
ing again with what appeared to be a sack on his back  then Harry
realized that Fangs limp body was draped around his shoulders.
Get him, get him! screamed Umbridge, but her remaining helper
seemed highly reluctant to go within reach of Hagrids fists. Indeed,
he was backing away so fast he tripped over one of his unconscious
colleagues and fell over. Hagrid had turned and begun to run with
Fang still hung around his neck Umbridge sent one last Stunning
Spell after him but it missed, and Hagrid, running fullpelt toward the
distant gates, disappeared into the darkness.
There was a long minutes quivering silence, everybody gazing
openmouthed into the grounds. Then Professor Toftys voice said fee
bly, Um . . . five minutes to go, everybody . . .
Though he had only filled in twothirds of his chart, Harry was
desperate for the end of the exam. When it came at last he, Ron, and
Hermione forced their telescopes haphazardly back into their holders
and dashed back down the spiral staircase. None of the students were
going to bed  they were all talking loudly and excitedly at the foot
of the stairs about what they had witnessed.
That evil woman! gasped Hermione, who seemed to be having
difficulty talking due to rage. Trying to sneak up on Hagrid in the
dead of night!


O.W.L.S
She clearly wanted to avoid another scene like Trelawneys, said
Ernie Macmillan sagely, squeezing over to join them.
Hagrid did well, didnt he? said Ron, who looked more alarmed
than impressed. How come all the spells bounced off him?
Itll be his giant blood, said Hermione shakily. Its very hard to
Stun a giant, theyre like trolls, really tough. . . . But poor Professor
McGonagall. . . . Four Stunners straight in the chest, and shes not ex
actly young, is she?
Dreadful, dreadful, said Ernie, shaking his head pompously.
Well, Im off to bed. . . . Night, all . . .
People around them were drifting away, still talking excitedly about
what they had just seen.
At least they didnt get to take Hagrid off to Azkaban, said Ron.
I spect hes gone to join Dumbledore, hasnt he?
I suppose so, said Hermione, who looked tearful. Oh, this is aw
ful, I really thought Dumbledore would be back before long, but now
weve lost Hagrid too. . . .
They traipsed back to the Gryffindor common room to find it full.
The commotion out in the grounds had woken several people, who
had hastened to rouse their friends. Seamus and Dean, who had ar
rived ahead of Harry, Ron, and Hermione, were now telling everyone
what they had heard from the top of the Astronomy Tower.
But why sack Hagrid now? asked Angelina Johnson, shaking her
head. Its not like Trelawney, hes been teaching much better than
usual this year!
Umbridge hates parthumans, said Hermione bitterly, flopping
down into an armchair. She was always going to try and get Hagrid
out.
And she thought Hagrid was putting nifflers in her office, piped
up Katie Bell.
Oh blimey, said Lee Jordan, covering his mouth. Its mes been


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
putting the nifflers in her office, Fred and George left me a couple,
Ive been levitating them in through her window. . . .
Shed have sacked him anyway, said Dean. He was too close to
Dumbledore.
Thats true, said Harry, sinking into an armchair beside Her
miones.
I just hope Professor McGonagalls all right, said Lavender tearfully.
They carried her back up to the castle, we watched through the dor
mitory window, said Colin Creevey She didnt look very well. . . .
Madam Pomfrey will sort her out, said Alicia Spinnet firmly.
Shes never failed yet.
It was nearly four in the morning before the common room
cleared. Harry felt wide awake  the image of Hagrid sprinting away
into the dark was haunting him. He was so angry with Umbridge he
could not think of a punishment bad enough for her, though Rons
suggestion of having her fed to a box of starving BlastEnded Skrewts
had its merits. He fell asleep contemplating hideous revenges and
arose from bed three hours later feeling distinctly unrested.
Their final exam, History of Magic, was not to take place until that
afternoon. Harry would very much have liked to go back to bed after
breakfast, but he had been counting on the morning for a spot of last
minute studying, so instead he sat with his head in his hands by the
common room window, trying hard not to doze off as he read through
some of the notes stacked threeandahalf feet high that Hermione
had lent him.
The fifth years entered the Great Hall at two oclock and took their
places in front of their overturned examination papers. Harry felt ex
hausted. He just wanted this to be over so that he could go and sleep.
Then tomorrow, he and Ron were going to go down to the Quidditch
pitch  he was going to have a fly on Rons broom and savor their
freedom from studying. . . .


O.W.L.S
Turn over your papers, said Professor Marchbanks from the front
of the Hall, flicking over the giant hourglass. You may begin. . . .
Harry stared fixedly at the first question. It was several seconds be
fore it occurred to him that he had not taken in a word of it there was
a wasp buzzing distractingly against one of the high windows. Slowly,
tortuously, he began to write an answer.
He was finding it very difficult to remember names and kept con
fusing dates. He simply skipped question four In your opinion, did
wand legislation contribute to, or lead to better control of, goblin riots of
the eighteenth century? thinking that he would go back to it if he had
time at the end. He had a stab at question five How was the Statute of
Secrecy breached in  and what measures were introduced to prevent a
recurrence? but had a nagging suspicion that he had missed several im
portant points. He had a feeling vampires had come into the story
somewhere. . . .
He looked ahead for a question he could definitely answer and his
eyes alighted upon number ten.
Describe the circumstances that led to the Formation of the Interna
tional Confederation of Wizards and explain why the warlocks of Liecht
enstein refused to join.
I know this, Harry thought, though his brain felt torpid and slack.
He could visualize a heading, in Hermiones handwriting The Forma
tion of the International Confederation of Wizards. . . He had read these
notes only this morning. . . .
He began to write, looking up now and again to check the large
hourglass on the desk beside Professor Marchbanks. He was sitting
right behind Parvati Patil, whose long dark hair fell below the back of
her chair. Once or twice he found himself staring at the tiny golden
lights that glistened in it when she moved her head very slightly and
had to give his own head a little shake to clear it.
. . . the first Supreme Mugwump of the International Confederation


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
of Wizards was Pierre Bonaccord, but his appointment was contested by
the Wizarding community of Liechtenstein, because 
All around Harry quills were scratching on parchment like scurry
ing, burrowing rats. The sun was very hot on the back of his head.
What was it that Bonaccord had done to offend the wizards of Liecht
enstein? Harry had a feeling it had something to do with trolls. . . .
He gazed blankly at the back of Parvatis head again. If he could only
perform Legilimency and open a window in the back of her head and
see what it was about trolls that had caused the breach between Pierre
Bonaccord and Liechtenstein. . . .
Harry closed his eyes and buried his face in his hands, so that the
glowing red of his eyelids grew dark and cool. Bonaccord had wanted
to stop trollhunting and give the trolls rights . . . but Liechtenstein
was having problems with a tribe of particularly vicious mountain
trolls. . . . That was it. . . .
He opened his eyes they stung and watered at the sight of the blaz
ingwhite parchment. Slowly he wrote two lines about the trolls then
read through what he had done so far. It did not seem very informa
tive or detailed, yet he was sure Hermiones notes on the confedera
tion had gone on for pages and pages. . . .
He closed his eyes again, trying to see them, trying to remember.
. . . The confederation had met for the first time in France, yes, he had
written that already. . . .
Goblins had tried to attend and been ousted. . . . He had written
that too. . . .
And nobody from Liechtenstein had wanted to come . . .
Think, he told himself, his face in his hands, while all around him
quills scratched out neverending answers and the sand trickled
through the hourglass at the front. . . .
He was walking along the cool, dark corridor to the Department of
Mysteries again, walking with a firm and purposeful tread, breaking


O.W.L.S
occasionally into a run, determined to reach his destination at last. . . .
The black door swung open for him as usual, and here he was in the
circular room with its many doors. . . .
Straight across the stone floor and through the second door . . .
patches of dancing light on the walls and floor and that odd mechan
ical clicking, but no time to explore, he must hurry. . . .
He jogged the last few feet to the third door, which swung open
just like the others. . . .
Once again he was in the cathedralsized room full of shelves and
glass spheres. . . . His heart was beating very fast now. . . . He was go
ing to get there this time. . . . When he reached number ninetyseven
he turned left and hurried along the aisle between two rows. . . .
But there was a shape on the floor at the very end, a black shape
moving upon the floor like a wounded animal. . . . Harrys stomach
contracted with fear . . . with excitement. . . .
A voice issued from his own mouth, a high, cold voice empty of
any human kindness, Take it for me. . . . Lift it down, now. . . . I
cannot touch it . . . but you can. . . .
The black shape upon the floor shifted a little. Harry saw a long
fingered white hand clutching a wand rise on the end of his own arm
. . . heard the high, cold voice say, Crucio!
The man on the floor let out a scream of pain, attempted to stand
but fell back, writhing. Harry was laughing. He raised his wand, the
curse lifted, and the figure groaned and became motionless.
Lord Voldemort is waiting. . . .
Very slowly, his arms trembling, the man on the ground raised his
shoulders a few inches and lifted his head. His face was bloodstained
and gaunt, twisted in pain yet rigid with defiance. . . .
Youll have to kill me, whispered Sirius.
Undoubtedly I shall in the end, said the cold voice. But you will
fetch it for me first, Black. . . . You think you have felt pain thus far?


CHAPTER THIRTYONE
Think again. . . . We have hours ahead of us and nobody to hear you
scream. . . .
But somebody screamed as Voldemort lowered his wand again
somebody yelled and fell sideways off a hot desk onto the cold stone
floor. Harry hit the ground and awoke, still yelling, his scar on fire, as
the Great Hall erupted all around him.


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y  T W O
OUT OF THE FIRE
I
m not going. . . . I dont need the hospital wing. . . . I dont
want . . .
He was gibbering, trying to pull away from Professor Tofty, who
was looking at him with much concern, and who had just helped
Harry out into the entrance hall while the students all around them
stared.
Im  Im fine, sir, Harry stammered, wiping the sweat from his
face. Really . . . I just fell asleep. . . . Had a nightmare . . .
Pressure of examinations! said the old wizard sympathetically,
patting Harry shakily on the shoulder. It happens, young man, it
happens! Now, a cooling drink of water, and perhaps you will be ready
to return to the Great Hall? The examination is nearly over, but you
may be able to round off your last answer nicely?
Yes, said Harry wildly. I mean . . . no . . . Ive done  done as
much as I can, I think. . . .
Very well, very well, said the old wizard gently. I shall go and
collect your examination paper, and I suggest that you go and have a
nice lie down. . . .


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
Ill do that, said Harry, nodding vigorously. Thanks very
much.
He waited for the second when the old mans heels disappeared
over the threshold into the Great Hall, then ran up the marble stair
case and then more staircases toward the hospital wing, hurtling along
the corridors so fast that the portraits he passed muttered reproaches,
and burst through the double doors like a hurricane, causing Madam
Pomfrey, who had been spooning some bright blue liquid into Mon
tagues open mouth, to shriek in alarm.
Potter, what do you think youre doing?
I need to see Professor McGonagall, gasped Harry, the breath
tearing his lungs. Now . . . Its urgent. . . .
Shes not here, Potter, said Madam Pomfrey sadly. She was trans
ferred to St. Mungos this morning. Four Stunning Spells straight to
the chest at her age? Its a wonder they didnt kill her.
Shes . . . gone? said Harry, stunned.
The bell rang just outside the dormitory, and he heard the usual
distant rumbling of students starting to flood out into the corridors
above and below him. He remained quite still, looking at Madam
Pomfrey. Terror was rising inside him.
There was nobody left to tell. Dumbledore had gone, Hagrid had
gone, but he had always expected Professor McGonagall to be there,
irascible and inflexible, perhaps, but always dependably, solidly
present. . . .
I dont wonder youre shocked, Potter, said Madam Pomfrey with
a kind of fierce approval in her face. As if one of them could have
Stunned Minerva McGonagall face on by daylight! Cowardice, thats
what it was. . . . Despicable cowardice . . . If I wasnt worried what
would happen to you students without me, Id resign in protest. . . .
Yes, said Harry blankly.
He strode blindly from the hospital wing into the teeming corridor
where he stood, buffeted by the crowd, the panic expanding inside


OUT OF THE FIRE
him like poison gas so that his head swam and he could not think
what to do. . . .
Ron and Hermione, said a voice in his head.
He was running again, pushing students out of the way, oblivious
to their angry protests and shouts. He sprinted back down two floors
and was at the top of the marble staircase when he saw them hurrying
toward him.
Harry! said Hermione at once, looking very frightened. What
happened? Are you all right? Are you ill?
Where have you been? demanded Ron.
Come with me, Harry said quickly. Come on, Ive got to tell
you something. . . .
He led them along the firstfloor corridor, peering through door
ways, and at last found an empty classroom into which he dived, clos
ing the door behind Ron and Hermione the moment they were inside
and leaning against it, facing them.
Voldemorts got Sirius.
What?
How dyou  ?
Saw it. Just now. When I fell asleep in the exam.
But  but where? How? said Hermione, whose face was white.
I dunno how, said Harry. But I know exactly where. Theres a
room in the Department of Mysteries full of shelves covered in these
little glass balls, and theyre at the end of row ninetyseven . . . Hes
trying to use Sirius to get whatever it is he wants from in there. . . .
Hes torturing him. . . . Says hell end by killing him . . .
Harry found his voice was shaking, as were his knees. He moved
over to a desk and sat down on it, trying to master himself.
Howre we going to get there? he asked them.
There was a moments silence. Then Ron said, Gget there?
Get to the Department of Mysteries, so we can rescue Sirius!
Harry said loudly.


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
But  Harry . . . said Ron weakly.
What? What? said Harry.
He could not understand why they were both gaping at him as
though he was asking them something unreasonable.
Harry, said Hermione in a rather frightened voice, er . . . how
. . . how did Voldemort get into the Ministry of Magic without any
body realizing he was there?
How do I know? bellowed Harry. The question is how were
going to get in there!
But . . . Harry, think about this, said Hermione, taking a step
toward him, its five oclock in the afternoon. . . . The Ministry of
Magic must be full of workers. . . . How would Voldemort and Sirius
have got in without being seen? Harry . . . theyre probably the two
most wanted wizards in the world. . . . You think they could get into
a building full of Aurors undetected?
I dunno, Voldemort used an Invisibility Cloak or something!
Harry shouted. Anyway, the Department of Mysteries has always
been completely empty whenever Ive been 
Youve never been there, Harry, said Hermione quietly. Youve
dreamed about the place, thats all.
Theyre not normal dreams! Harry shouted in her face, standing
up and taking a step closer to her in turn. He wanted to shake her.
How dyou explain Rons dad then, what was all that about, how
come I knew what had happened to him?
Hes got a point, said Ron quietly, looking at Hermione.
But this is just  just so unlikely! said Hermione desperately.
Harry, how on earth could Voldemort have got hold of Sirius when
hes been in Grimmauld Place all the time?
Sirius mightve cracked and just wanted some fresh air, said Ron,
sounding worried. Hes been desperate to get out of that house for
ages 


OUT OF THE FIRE
But why, Hermione persisted, why on earth would Voldemort
want to use Sirius to get the weapon, or whatever the thing is?
I dunno, there could be loads of reasons! Harry yelled at her.
Maybe Sirius is just someone Voldemort doesnt care about seeing
hurt 
You know what, Ive just thought of something, said Ron in a
hushed voice. Siriuss brother was a Death Eater, wasnt he? Maybe he
told Sirius the secret of how to get the weapon!
Yeah  and thats why Dumbledores been so keen to keep Sirius
locked up all the time! said Harry.
Look, Im sorry, cried Hermione, but neither of you are making
sense, and weve got no proof for any of this, no proof Voldemort and
Sirius are even there 
Hermione, Harrys seen them! said Ron, rounding on her.
Okay, she said, looking frightened yet determined, Ive just got
to say this. . . .
What?
You . . . This isnt a criticism, Harry! But you do . . . sort of . . . I
mean  dont you think youve got a bit of a  a  savingpeople
thing? she said.
He glared at her. And whats that supposed to mean, a saving
peoplething?
Well . . . you . . . She looked more apprehensive than ever. I
mean . . . last year, for instance . . . in the lake . . . during the Tourna
ment . . . you shouldnt have . . . I mean, you didnt need to save that
little Delacour girl. . . . You got a bit . . . carried away . . .
A wave of hot, prickly anger swept Harrys body  how could she
remind him of that blunder now?
. . . I mean, it was really great of you and everything, said
Hermione quickly, looking positively petrified at the look on Harrys
face. Everyone thought it was a wonderful thing to do 


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
Thats funny, said Harry in a trembling voice, because I definitely
remember Ron saying Id wasted time acting the hero. . . . Is that what
you think this is? You reckon I want to act the hero again?
No, no, no! said Hermione, looking aghast. Thats not what I
mean at all!
Well, spit out what youve got to say, because were wasting time
here! Harry shouted.
Im trying to say  Voldemort knows you, Harry! He took Ginny
down into the Chamber of Secrets to lure you there, its the kind of
thing he does, he knows youre the  the sort of person whod go to
Siriuss aid! What if hes just trying to get you into the Department of
Myst  ?
Hermione, it doesnt matter if hes done it to get me there or
not  theyve taken McGonagall to St. Mungos, there isnt anyone
left from the Order at Hogwarts who we can tell, and if we dont go,
Sirius is dead!
But Harry  what if your dream was  was just that, a dream?
Harry let out a roar of frustration. Hermione actually stepped back
from him, looking alarmed.
You dont get it! Harry shouted at her. Im not having night
mares, Im not just dreaming! What dyou think all the Occlumency
was for, why dyou think Dumbledore wanted me prevented from
seeing these things? Because theyre REAL, Hermione  Sirius is
trapped  Ive seen him  Voldemorts got him, and no one else
knows, and that means were the only ones who can save him, and if
you dont want to do it, fine, but Im going, understand? And if I re
member rightly, you didnt have a problem with my savingpeoplething
when it was you I was saving from the dementors, or  he rounded
on Ron  when it was your sister I was saving from the basilisk 
I never said I had a problem! said Ron heatedly.
But Harry, youve just said it, said Hermione fiercely. Dumble


OUT OF THE FIRE
dore wanted you to learn to shut these things out of your mind, if
youd done Occlumency properly youd never have seen this 
IF YOU THINK IM JUST GOING TO ACT LIKE I
HAVENT SEEN 
Sirius told you there was nothing more important than you learn
ing to close your mind!
WELL, I EXPECT HED SAY SOMETHING DIFFERENT IF
HE KNEW WHAT ID JUST 
The classroom door opened. Harry, Ron, and Hermione whipped
around. Ginny walked in, looking curious, followed by Luna, who as
usual looked as though she had drifted in accidentally.
Hi, said Ginny uncertainly. We recognized Harrys voice 
what are you yelling about?
Never you mind, said Harry roughly.
Ginny raised her eyebrows.
Theres no need to take that tone with me, she said coolly. I was
only wondering whether I could help.
Well, you cant, said Harry shortly.
Youre being rather rude, you know, said Luna serenely.
Harry swore and turned away. The very last thing he wanted now
was a conversation with Luna Lovegood.
Wait, said Hermione suddenly. Wait . . . Harry, they can help.
Harry and Ron looked at her.
Listen, she said urgently, Harry, we need to establish whether
Sirius really has left headquarters 
Ive told you, I saw 
Harry, Im begging you, please! said Hermione desperately.
Please lets just check that Sirius isnt at home before we go charging
off to London  if we find out hes not there then I swear I wont try
and stop you, Ill come, Ill ddo whatever it takes to try and save
him 


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
Sirius is being tortured NOW! shouted Harry. We havent got
time to waste 
But if this is a trick of VVoldemorts  Harry, weve got to check,
weve got to 
How? Harry demanded. Howre we going to check?
Well have to use Umbridges fire and see if we can contact him,
said Hermione, who looked positively terrified at the thought. Well
draw Umbridge away again, but well need lookouts, and thats where
we can use Ginny and Luna.
Though clearly struggling to understand what was going on, Ginny
said immediately, Yeah, well do it, and Luna said, When you say
Sirius, are you talking about Stubby Boardman?
Nobody answered her.
Okay, Harry said aggressively to Hermione, Okay, if you can
think of a way of doing this quickly, Im with you, otherwise Im go
ing to the Department of Mysteries right now 
The Department of Mysteries? said Luna, looking mildly sur
prised. But how are you going to get there?
Again, Harry ignored her.
Right, said Hermione, twisting her hands together and pacing up
and down between the desks. Right . . . well . . . One of us has to go
and find Umbridge and  and send her off in the wrong direction,
keep her away from her office. They could tell her  I dont know 
that Peeves is up to something awful as usual. . . .
Ill do it, said Ron at once. Ill tell her Peeves is smashing up the
Transfiguration department or something, its miles away from her of
fice. Come to think of it, I could probably persuade Peeves to do it if
I met him on the way. . . .
It was a mark of the seriousness of the situation that Hermione made
no objection to the smashing up of the Transfiguration department.
Okay, she said, her brow furrowed as she continued to pace.


OUT OF THE FIRE
Now, we need to keep students away from her office while we force
entry, or some Slytherins bound to go and tip her off. . . .
Luna and I can stand at either end of the corridor, said Ginny
promptly, and warn people not to go down there because someones
let off a load of Garroting Gas. Hermione looked surprised at the
readiness with which Ginny had come up with this lie. Ginny shrugged
and said, Fred and George were planning to do it before they left.
Okay, said Hermione, well then, Harry, you and I will be under
the Invisibility Cloak, and well sneak into the office and you can talk
to Sirius 
Hes not there, Hermione!
I mean, you can  can check whether Sirius is at home or not
while I keep watch, I dont think you should be in there alone, Lees
already proved the windows a weak spot, sending those nifflers
through it.
Even through his anger and impatience Harry recognized Her
miones offer to accompany him into Umbridges office as a sign of
solidarity and loyalty.
I . . . okay, thanks, he muttered.
Right, well, even if we do all of that, I dont think were going to
be able to bank on more than five minutes, said Hermione, looking
relieved that Harry seemed to have accepted the plan, not with Filch
and the wretched Inquisitorial Squad floating around.
Five minutesll be enough, said Harry. Cmon, lets go 
Now? said Hermione, looking shocked.
Of course now! said Harry angrily. What did you think, were
going to wait until after dinner or something? Hermione, Sirius is be
ing tortured right now!
I  oh all right, she said desperately. You go and get the Invisi
bility Cloak and well meet you at the end of Umbridges corridor,
okay?


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
Harry did not answer, but flung himself out of the room and began
to fight his way through the milling crowds outside. Two floors up he
met Seamus and Dean, who hailed him jovially and told him they
were planning a dusktilldawn endofexams celebration in the com
mon room. Harry barely heard them. He scrambled through the por
trait hole while they were still arguing about how many blackmarket
butterbeers they would need and was climbing back out of it, the In
visibility Cloak and Siriuss knife secure in his bag, before they noticed
he had left them.
Harry, dyou want to chip in a couple of Galleons? Harold Dingle
reckons he could sell us some firewhisky. . . .
But Harry was already tearing away back along the corridor, and a
couple of minutes later was jumping the last few stairs to join Ron,
Hermione, Ginny, and Luna, who were huddled together at the end
of Umbridges corridor.
Got it, he panted. Ready to go, then?
All right, whispered Hermione as a gang of loud sixth years
passed them. So Ron  you go and head Umbridge off. . . . Ginny,
Luna, if you can start moving people out of the corridor. . . . Harry
and I will get the cloak on and wait until the coast is clear. . . .
Ron strode away, his bright red hair visible right to the end of the
passage. Meanwhile, Ginnys equally vivid head bobbed between the
jostling students surrounding them in the other direction, trailed by
Lunas blonde one.
Get over here, muttered Hermione, tugging at Harrys wrist and
pulling him back into a recess where the ugly stone head of a medieval
wizard stood muttering to itself on a column. Are  are you sure
youre okay, Harry? Youre still very pale. . . .
Im fine, he said shortly, tugging the Invisibility Cloak from out
of his bag. In truth, his scar was aching, but not so badly that he
thought Voldemort had yet dealt Sirius a fatal blow. It had hurt much
worse than this when Voldemort had been punishing Avery. . . .


OUT OF THE FIRE
Here, he said. He threw the Invisibility Cloak over both of them
and they stood listening carefully over the Latin mumblings of the
bust in front of them.
You cant come down here! Ginny was calling to the crowd. No,
sorry, youre going to have to go round by the swiveling staircase,
someones let off Garroting Gas just along here 
They could hear people complaining one surly voice said, I cant
see no gas . . .
Thats because its colorless, said Ginny in a convincingly exas
perated voice, but if you want to walk through it, carry on, then well
have your body as proof for the next idiot who didnt believe us. . . .
Slowly the crowd thinned. The news about the Garroting Gas
seemed to have spread  people were not coming this way anymore.
When at last the surrounding area was quite clear, Hermione said qui
etly, I think thats as good as were going to get, Harry  come on,
lets do it.
Together they moved forward, covered by the cloak. Luna was
standing with her back to them at the far end of the corridor. As they
passed Ginny, Hermione whispered, Good one . . . dont forget the
signal . . .
Whats the signal? muttered Harry, as they approached Urn
bridges door.
A loud chorus of Weasley Is Our King if they see Umbridge com
ing, replied Hermione, as Harry inserted the blade of Siriuss knife in
the crack between door and wall. The lock clicked open, and they en
tered the office.
The garish kittens were basking in the late afternoon sunshine
warming their plates, but otherwise the office was as still and empty as
last time. Hermione breathed a sigh of relief.
I thought she might have added extra security after the second
niffler. . . .
They pulled off the cloak. Hermione hurried over to the window


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
and stood out of sight, peering down into the grounds with her wand
out. Harry dashed over to the fireplace, seized the pot of Floo powder,
and threw a pinch into the grate, causing emerald flames to burst into
life there. He knelt down quickly, thrust his head into the dancing
fire, and cried, Number twelve, Grimmauld Place!
His head began to spin as though he had just got off a fairground
ride though his knees remained firmly planted upon the cold office
floor. He kept his eyes screwed up against the whirling ash, and when
the spinning stopped, he opened them to find himself looking out
upon the long, cold kitchen of Grimmauld Place.
There was nobody there. He had expected this, yet was not pre
pared for the molten wave of dread and panic that seemed to burst
through his stomach floor at the sight of the deserted room.
Sirius? he shouted. Sirius, are you there?
His voice echoed around the room, but there was no answer except
a tiny scuffing sound to the right of the fire.
Whos there? he called, wondering whether it was just a mouse.
Kreacher the houseelf came creeping into view. He looked highly
delighted about something, though he seemed to have recently sus
tained a nasty injury to both hands, which were heavily bandaged.
Its the Potter boys head in the fire, Kreacher informed the empty
kitchen, stealing furtive, oddly triumphant glances at Harry. What
has he come for, Kreacher wonders?
Wheres Sirius, Kreacher? Harry demanded.
The houseelf gave a wheezy chuckle. Master has gone out, Harry
Potter.
Wheres he gone? Wheres he gone, Kreacher?
Kreacher merely cackled.
Im warning you! said Harry, fully aware that his scope for inflict
ing punishment upon Kreacher was almost nonexistent in this position.
What about Lupin? MadEye? Any of them, are any of them here?


OUT OF THE FIRE
Nobody here but Kreacher! said the elf gleefully, and turning
away from Harry he began to walk slowly toward the door at the end
of the kitchen. Kreacher thinks he will have a little chat with his
Mistress now, yes, he hasnt had a chance in a long time, Kreachers
Master has been keeping him away from her 
Where has Sirius gone? Harry yelled after the elf. Kreacher, has
he gone to the Department of Mysteries?
Kreacher stopped in his tracks. Harry could just make out the back
of his bald head through the forest of chair legs before him.
Master does not tell poor Kreacher where he is going, said the elf
quietly.
But you know! shouted Harry. Dont you? You know where
he is!
There was a moments silence, then the elf let out his loudest cackle
yet. Master will not come back from the Department of Mysteries!
he said gleefully. Kreacher and his Mistress are alone again!
And he scurried forward and disappeared through the door to the
hall.
You  !
But before he could utter a single curse or insult, Harry felt a great
pain at the top of his head. He inhaled a lot of ash and, choking,
found himself being dragged backward through the flames until, with
a horrible abruptness, he was staring up into the wide, pallid face of
Professor Umbridge, who had dragged him backward out of the fire
by the hair and was now bending his neck back as far as it would go as
though she was going to slit his throat.
You think, she whispered, bending Harrys neck back even far
ther, so that he was looking up at the ceiling above him, that after
two nifflers I was going to let one more foul, scavenging little creature
enter my office without my knowledge? I had Stealth Sensoring Spells
placed all around my doorway after the last one got in, you foolish


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
boy. Take his wand, she barked at someone he could not see, and he
felt a hand grope inside the chest pocket of his robes and remove the
wand. Hers too . . .
Harry heard a scuffle over by the door and knew that Hermione
had just had her wand wrested from her as well.
I want to know why you are in my office, said Umbridge, shak
ing the fist clutching his hair so that he staggered.
I was  trying to get my Firebolt! Harry croaked.
Liar. She shook his head again. Your Firebolt is under strict
guard in the dungeons, as you very well know, Potter. You had your
head in my fire. With whom have you been communicating?
No one  said Harry, trying to pull away from her. He felt sev
eral hairs part company with his scalp.
Liar! shouted Umbridge. She threw him from her, and he
slammed into the desk. Now he could see Hermione pinioned against
the wall by Millicent Bulstrode. Malfoy was leaning on the win
dowsill, smirking as he threw Harrys wand into the air onehanded
and then caught it again.
There was a commotion outside and several large Slytherins
entered, each gripping Ron, Ginny, Luna, and  to Harrys bewil
derment  Neville, who was trapped in a stranglehold by Crabbe
and looked in imminent danger of suffocation. All four of them had
been gagged.
Got em all, said Warrington, shoving Ron roughly forward into
the room. That one. he poked a thick finger at Neville, tried to stop
me taking her, he pointed at Ginny, who was trying to kick the shins
of the large Slytherin girl holding her, so I brought him along too.
Good, good, said Umbridge, watching Ginnys struggles. Well,
it looks as though Hogwarts will shortly be a Weasleyfree zone,
doesnt it?
Malfoy laughed loudly and sycophantically. Umbridge gave her


OUT OF THE FIRE
wide, complacent smile and settled herself into a chintzcovered arm
chair, blinking up at her captives like a toad in a flowerbed.
So, Potter, she said. You stationed lookouts around my office
and you sent this buffoon, she nodded at Ron, and Malfoy laughed
even louder, to tell me the poltergeist was wreaking havoc in the
Transfiguration department when I knew perfectly well that he was
busy smearing ink on the eyepieces of all the school telescopes, Mr.
Filch having just informed me so.
Clearly, it was very important for you to talk to somebody. Was it
Albus Dumbledore? Or the halfbreed, Hagrid? I doubt it was Min
erva McGonagall, I hear she is still too ill to talk to anyone. . . .
Malfoy and a few of the other members of the Inquisitorial Squad
laughed some more at that. Harry found he was so full of rage and ha
tred he was shaking.
Its none of your business who I talk to, he snarled.
Umbridges slack face seemed to tighten.
Very well, she said in her most dangerous and falsely sweet voice.
Very well, Mr. Potter . . . I offered you the chance to tell me freely.
You refused. I have no alternative but to force you. Draco  fetch
Professor Snape.
Malfoy stowed Harrys wand inside his robes and left the room
smirking, but Harry hardly noticed. He had just realized some
thing he could not believe he had been so stupid as to forget it. He
had thought that all the members of the Order, all those who could
help him save Sirius, were gone  but he had been wrong. There
was still a member of the Order of the Phoenix at Hogwarts 
Snape.
There was silence in the office except for the fidgetings and scuf
flings resultant from the Slytherins efforts to keep Ron and the others
under control. Rons lip was bleeding onto Umbridges carpet as he
struggled against Warringtons half nelson. Ginny was still trying to


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
stamp on the feet of the sixthyear girl who had both her upper arms
in a tight grip. Neville was turning steadily more purple in the face
while tugging at Crabbes arms, and Hermione was attempting vainly
to throw Millicent Bulstrode off her. Luna, however, stood limply by
the side of her captor, gazing vaguely out of the window as though
rather bored by the proceedings.
Harry looked back at Umbridge, who was watching him closely.
He kept his face deliberately smooth and blank as footsteps were
heard in the corridor outside and Draco Malfoy came back into the
room, holding open the door for Snape.
You wanted to see me, Headmistress? said Snape, looking around
at all the pairs of struggling students with an expression of complete
indifference.
Ah, Professor Snape, said Umbridge, smiling widely and standing
up again. Yes, I would like another bottle of Veritaserum, as quick as
you can, please.
You took my last bottle to interrogate Potter, he said, observing
her coolly through his greasy curtains of black hair. Surely you did
not use it all? I told you that three drops would be sufficient.
Umbridge flushed.
You can make some more, cant you? she said, her voice becom
ing more sweetly girlish as it always did when she was furious.
Certainly, said Snape, his lip curling. It takes a full moon cycle
to mature, so I should have it ready for you in around a month.
A month? squawked Umbridge, swelling toadishly. A month?
But I need it this evening, Snape! I have just found Potter using my
fire to communicate with a person or persons unknown!
Really? said Snape, showing his first, faint sign of interest as he
looked around at Harry. Well, it doesnt surprise me. Potter has never
shown much inclination to follow school rules.
His cold, dark eyes were boring into Harrys, who met his gaze un


OUT OF THE FIRE
flinchingly, concentrating hard on what he had seen in his dream,
willing Snape to read it in his mind, to understand . . .
I wish to interrogate him! shouted Umbridge angrily, and Snape
looked away from Harry back into her furiously quivering face. I
wish you to provide me with a potion that will force him to tell me
the truth!
I have already told you, said Snape smoothly, that I have no fur
ther stocks of Veritaserum. Unless you wish to poison Potter  and I
assure you I would have the greatest sympathy with you if you did 
I cannot help you. The only trouble is that most venoms act too fast
to give the victim much time for truthtelling. . . .
Snape looked back at Harry, who stared at him, frantic to commu
nicate without words.
Voldemorts got Sirius in the Department of Mysteries, he thought des
perately. Voldemorts got Sirius 
You are on probation! shrieked Professor Umbridge, and Snape
looked back at her, his eyebrows slightly raised. You are being delib
erately unhelpful! I expected better, Lucius Malfoy always speaks most
highly of you! Now get out of my office!
Snape gave her an ironic bow and turned to leave. Harry knew his
last chance of letting the Order know what was going on was walking
out of the door.
Hes got Padfoot! he shouted. Hes got Padfoot at the place
where its hidden!
Snape had stopped with his hand on Umbridges door handle.
Padfoot? cried Professor Umbridge, looking eagerly from Harry
to Snape. What is Padfoot? Where what is hidden? What does he
mean, Snape?
Snape looked around at Harry. His face was inscrutable. Harry
could not tell whether he had understood or not, but he did not dare
speak more plainly in front of Umbridge.


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
I have no idea, said Snape coldly. Potter, when I want nonsense
shouted at me I shall give you a Babbling Beverage. And Crabbe,
loosen your hold a little, if Longbottom suffocates it will mean a lot of
tedious paperwork, and I am afraid I shall have to mention it on your
reference if ever you apply for a job.
He closed the door behind him with a snap, leaving Harry in a state
of worse turmoil than before Snape had been his very last hope. He
looked at Umbridge, who seemed to be feeling the same way her
chest was heaving with rage and frustration.
Very well, she said, and she pulled out her wand. Very well . . .
I am left with no alternative. . . . This is more than a matter of school
discipline. . . . This is an issue of Ministry security. . . . Yes . . .
yes . . .
She seemed to be talking herself into something. She was shifting
her weight nervously from foot to foot, staring at Harry, beating her
wand against her empty palm and breathing heavily. Harry felt horri
bly powerless without his own wand as he watched her.
You are forcing me, Potter. . . . I do not want to, said Umbridge,
still moving restlessly on the spot, but sometimes circumstances jus
tify the use . . . I am sure the Minister will understand that I had no
choice. . . .
Malfoy was watching her with a hungry expression on his face.
The Cruciatus Curse ought to loosen your tongue, said Um
bridge quietly.
No! shrieked Hermione. Professor Umbridge  its illegal 
but Umbridge took no notice. There was a nasty, eager, excited look
on her face that Harry had never seen before. She raised her wand.
The Minister wouldnt want you to break the law, Professor Um
bridge! cried Hermione.
What Cornelius doesnt know wont hurt him, said Umbridge,
who was now panting slightly as she pointed her wand at different


OUT OF THE FIRE
parts of Harrys body in turn, apparently trying to decide what would
hurt the most. He never knew I ordered dementors after Potter last
summer, but he was delighted to be given the chance to expel him, all
the same. . . .
It was you? gasped Harry. You sent the dementors after me?
Somebody had to act, breathed Umbridge, as her wand came to
rest pointing directly at Harrys forehead. They were all bleating
about silencing you somehow  discrediting you  but I was the
one who actually did something about it. . . . Only you wriggled out
of that one, didnt you, Potter? Not today, though, not now . . .
And taking a deep breath, she cried, Cruc 
NO! shouted Hermione in a cracked voice from behind Milli
cent Bulstrode. No  Harry  Harry, well have to tell her!
No way! yelled Harry, staring at the little of Hermione he could
see.
Well have to, Harry, shell force it out of you anyway, whats . . .
whats the point. . . ?
And Hermione began to cry weakly into the back of Millicent Bul
strodes robes. Millicent stopped trying to squash her against the wall
immediately and dodged out of her way looking disgusted.
Well, well, well! said Umbridge, looking triumphant. Little
Miss QuestionAll is going to give us some answers! Come on then,
girl, come on!
Er  my  nee  no! shouted Ron through his gag.
Ginny was staring at Hermione as though she had never seen her
before Neville, still choking for breath, was gazing at her too. But
Harry had just noticed something. Though Hermione was sobbing
desperately into her hands, there was no trace of a tear. . . .
Im  Im sorry everyone, said Hermione. But  I cant stand
it 
Thats right, thats right, girl! said Umbridge, seizing Hermione


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
by the shoulders, thrusting her into the abandoned chintz chair and
leaning over her. Now then . . . with whom was Potter communicat
ing just now?
Well, gulped Hermione into her hands, well, he was trying to
speak to Professor Dumbledore. . . .
Ron froze, his eyes wide Ginny stopped trying to stamp on her
Slytherin captors toes even Luna looked mildly surprised. Fortu
nately, the attention of Umbridge and her minions was focused too
exclusively upon Hermione to notice these suspicious signs.
Dumbledore? said Umbridge eagerly. You know where Dumb
ledore is, then?
Well . . . no! sobbed Hermione. Weve tried the Leaky Caul
dron in Diagon Alley and the Three Broomsticks and even the Hogs
Head 
Idiot girl, Dumbledore wont be sitting in a pub when the whole
Ministrys looking for him! shouted Umbridge, disappointment
etched in every sagging line of her face.
But  but we needed to tell him something important! wailed
Hermione, holding her hands more tightly over her face, not, Harry
knew, out of anguish, but to disguise the continued absence of tears.
Yes? said Umbridge with a sudden resurgence of excitement.
What was it you wanted to tell him?
We . . . we wanted to tell him its rready! choked Hermione.
Whats ready? demanded Umbridge, and now she grabbed
Hermiones shoulders again and shook her slightly. Whats ready,
girl?
The . . . the weapon, said Hermione.
Weapon? Weapon? said Umbridge, and her eyes seemed to pop
with excitement. You have been developing some method of resis
tance? A weapon you could use against the Ministry? On Professor
Dumbledores orders, of course?


OUT OF THE FIRE
Yyyes, gasped Hermione. But he had to leave before it was fin
ished and nnnow weve finished it for him, and we cccant find him
ttto tell him!
What kind of weapon is it? said Umbridge harshly, her stubby
hands still tight on Hermiones shoulders.
We dont rrreally understand it, said Hermione, sniffing loudly.
We jjjust did what PPProfessor Dumbledore told us ttto
do . . .
Umbridge straightened up, looking exultant.
Lead me to the weapon, she said.
Im not showing . . . them, said Hermione shrilly, looking around
at the Slytherins through her fingers.
It is not for you to set conditions, said Professor Umbridge
harshly.
Fine, said Hermione, now sobbing into her hands again, fine
. . . let them see it, I hope they use it on you! In fact, I wish youd in
vite loads and loads of people to come and see! Ththat would serve
you right  oh, Id love it if the whwhole school knew where it was,
and how to uuse it, and then if you annoy any of them theyll be able
to ssort you out!
These words had a powerful impact on Umbridge. She glanced
swiftly and suspiciously around at her Inquisitorial Squad, her bulging
eyes resting for a moment on Malfoy, who was too slow to disguise the
look of eagerness and greed that had appeared on his face.
Umbridge contemplated Hermione for another long moment and
then spoke in what she clearly thought was a motherly voice. All
right, dear, lets make it just you and me . . . and well take Potter too,
shall we? Get up, now 
Professor, said Malfoy eagerly, Professor Umbridge, I think
some of the squad should come with you to look after 
I am a fully qualified Ministry official, Malfoy, do you really think


CHAPTER THIRTYTWO
I cannot manage two wandless teenagers alone? asked Umbridge
sharply. In any case, it does not sound as though this weapon is
something that schoolchildren should see. You will remain here until
I return and make sure none of these  she gestured around at Ron,
Ginny, Neville, and Luna  escape.
All right, said Malfoy, looking sulky and disappointed.
And you two can go ahead of me and show me the way, said Um
bridge, pointing at Harry and Hermione with her wand. Lead
on. . . .


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y  T H R E E
FIGHT AND FLIGHT
H
arry had no idea what Hermione was planning, or even
whether she had a plan. He walked half a pace behind her as
they headed down the corridor outside Umbridges office, knowing it
would look very suspicious if he appeared not to know where they
were going. He did not dare attempt to talk to her Umbridge was
walking so closely behind them that he could hear her ragged
breathing.
Hermione led the way down the stairs into the entrance hall. The
din of loud voices and the clatter of cutlery on plates echoed from out
of the double doors to the Great Hall. It seemed incredible to Harry
that twenty feet away were people who were enjoying dinner, cele
brating the end of exams, not a care in the world. . . .
Hermione walked straight out of the oak front doors and down the
stone steps into the balmy evening air. The sun was falling toward the
tops of the trees in the Forbidden Forest now as Hermione marched
purposefully across the grass, Umbridge jogging to keep up. Their
long dark shadows rippled over the grass behind them like cloaks.


CHAPTER THIRTYTHREE
Its hidden in Hagrids hut, is it? said Umbridge eagerly in Harrys
ear.
Of course not, said Hermione scathingly. Hagrid might have set
it off accidentally.
Yes, said Umbridge, whose excitement seemed to be mounting.
Yes, he would have done, of course, the great halfbreed oaf. . . .
She laughed. Harry felt a strong urge to swing around and seize her
by the throat, but resisted. His scar was throbbing in the soft evening
air but it had not yet burned whitehot, as he knew it would if Volde
mort had moved in for the kill. . . .
Then . . . where is it? asked Umbridge, with a hint of uncertainty
in her voice as Hermione continued to stride toward the forest.
In there, of course, said Hermione, pointing into the dark trees.
It had to be somewhere that students werent going to find it acci
dentally, didnt it?
Of course, said Umbridge, though she sounded a little apprehen
sive now. Of course . . . very well, then . . . you two stay ahead of
me.
Can we have your wand, then, if were going first? Harry asked
her.
No, I dont think so, Mr. Potter, said Umbridge sweetly, poking
him in the back with it. The Ministry places a rather higher value on
my life than yours, Im afraid.
As they reached the cool shade of the first trees, Harry tried to catch
Hermiones eye walking into the forest without wands seemed to him
to be more foolhardy than anything they had done so far this evening.
She, however, merely gave Umbridge a contemptuous glance and
plunged straight into the trees, moving at such a pace that Umbridge,
with her shorter legs, had difficulty in keeping up.
Is it very far in? Umbridge asked, as her robe ripped on a bramble.
Oh yes, said Hermione. Yes, its well hidden.
Harrys misgivings increased. Hermione was not taking the path


FIGHT AND FLIGHT
they had followed to visit Grawp, but the one he had followed three
years ago to the lair of the monster Aragog. Hermione had not been
with him on that occasion he doubted she had any idea what danger
lay at the end of it.
Er  are you sure this is the right way? he asked her pointedly.
Oh yes, she said in a steely voice, crashing through the under
growth with what he thought was a wholly unnecessary amount of
noise. Behind them, Umbridge tripped over a fallen sapling. Neither
of them paused to help her up again Hermione merely strode on,
calling loudly over her shoulder, Its a bit further in!
Hermione, keep your voice down, Harry muttered, hurrying to
catch up with her. Anything could be listening in here 
I want us heard, she answered quietly, as Umbridge jogged nois
ily after them. Youll see. . . .
They walked on for what seemed a long time, until they were once
again so deep into the forest that the dense tree canopy blocked out all
light. Harry had the feeling he had had before in the forest, one of be
ing watched by unseen eyes. . . .
How much further? demanded Umbridge angrily from behind
him.
Not far now! shouted Hermione, as they emerged into a dim,
dank clearing. Just a little bit 
An arrow flew through the air and landed with a menacing thud in
the tree just over her head. The air was suddenly full of the sound of
hooves. Harry could feel the forest floor trembling Umbridge gave a
little scream and pushed him in front of her like a shield 
He wrenched himself free of her and turned. Around fifty centaurs
were emerging on every side, their bows raised and loaded, pointing at
Harry, Hermione, and Umbridge, who backed slowly into the center
of the clearing, Umbridge uttering odd little whimpers of terror.
Harry looked sideways at Hermione. She was wearing a triumphant
smile.


CHAPTER THIRTYTHREE
Who are you? said a voice.
Harry looked left. The chestnutbodied centaur called Magorian
was walking toward them out of the circle his bow, like the others,
was raised. On Harrys right, Umbridge was still whimpering, her
wand trembling violently as she pointed it at the advancing centaur.
I asked you who are you, human, said Magorian roughly.
I am Dolores Umbridge! said Umbridge in a highpitched, terri
fied voice. Senior Undersecretary to the Minister of Magic and Head
mistress and High Inquisitor of Hogwarts!
You are from the Ministry of Magic? said Magorian, as many of
the centaurs in the surrounding circle shifted restlessly.
Thats right! said Umbridge in an even higher voice. So be very
careful! By the laws laid down by the Department for the Regulation
and Control of Magical Creatures, any attack by halfbreeds such as
yourselves on a human 
What did you call us? shouted a wildlooking black centaur,
whom Harry recognized as Bane. There was a great deal of angry mut
tering and tightening of bowstrings around them.
Dont call them that! Hermione said furiously, but Umbridge did
not appear to have heard her. Still pointing her shaking wand at
Magorian, she continued, Law Fifteen B states clearly that Any at
tack by a magical creature who is deemed to have nearhuman intelli
gence, and therefore considered responsible for its actions  
 Nearhuman intelligence? repeated Magorian, as Bane and sev
eral others roared with rage and pawed the ground. We consider that
a great insult, human! Our intelligence, thankfully, far outstrips your
own 
What are you doing in our forest? bellowed the hardfaced gray
centaur whom Harry and Hermione had seen on their last trip into
the forest. Why are you here?
Your forest? said Umbridge, shaking now not only with fright but
also, it seemed, with indignation. I would remind you that you live


FIGHT AND FLIGHT
here only because the Ministry of Magic permits you certain areas of
land 
An arrow flew so close to her head that it caught at her mousy hair
in passing. She let out an earsplitting scream and threw her hands over
her head while some of the centaurs bellowed their approval and oth
ers laughed raucously. The sound of their wild, neighing laughter
echoing around the dimly lit clearing and the sight of their pawing
hooves was extremely unnerving.
Whose forest is it now, human? bellowed Bane.
Filthy halfbreeds! she screamed, her hands still tight over her
head. Beasts! Uncontrolled animals!
Be quiet! shouted Hermione, but it was too late  Umbridge
pointed her wand at Magorian and screamed, Incarcerous!
Ropes flew out of midair like thick snakes, wrapping themselves
tightly around the centaurs torso and trapping his arms. He gave a cry
of rage and reared onto his hind legs, attempting to free himself, while
the other centaurs charged.
Harry grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the ground. Facedown
on the forest floor he knew a moment of terror as hooves thundered
around him, but the centaurs leapt over and around them, bellowing
and screaming with rage.
Nooooo! he heard Umbridge shriek. Noooooo . . . I am Senior
Undersecretary . . . you cannot . . . unhand me, you animals . . .
nooooo!
He saw a flash of red light and knew that she had attempted to Stun
one of them  then she screamed very loudly. Lifting his head a few
inches, Harry saw that Umbridge had been seized from behind by
Bane and lifted high into the air, wriggling and yelling with fright.
Her wand fell from her hand to the ground and Harrys heart leapt, if
he could just reach it 
But as he stretched out a hand toward it, a centaurs hoof descended
upon the wand and it broke cleanly in half.


CHAPTER THIRTYTHREE
Now! roared a voice in Harrys ear and a thick hairy arm de
scended from thin air and dragged him upright Hermione too had
been pulled to her feet. Over the plunging, manycolored backs and
heads of the centaurs Harry saw Umbridge being borne away through
the trees by Bane, still screaming nonstop her voice grew fainter and
fainter until they could no longer hear it over the trampling of hooves
surrounding them.
And these? said the hardfaced, gray centaur holding Hermione.
They are young, said a slow, doleful voice from behind Harry.
We do not attack foals.
They brought her here, Ronan, replied the centaur who had such
a firm grip on Harry. And they are not so young. . . . He is nearing
manhood, this one. . . .
He shook Harry by the neck of his robes.
Please, said Hermione breathlessly, please, dont attack us, we
dont think like her, we arent Ministry of Magic employees! We only
came in here because we hoped youd drive her off for us 
Harry knew at once from the look on the face of the gray centaur
holding Hermione that she had made a terrible mistake in saying this.
The gray centaur threw back his head, his back legs stamping furi
ously, and bellowed, You see, Ronan? They already have the arro
gance of their kind! So we were to do your dirty work, were we,
human girl? We were to act as your servants, drive away your enemies
like obedient hounds?
No! said Hermione in a horrorstruck squeak. Please  I didnt
mean that! I just hoped youd be able to  to help us 
But she seemed to be going from bad to worse.
We do not help humans! snarled the centaur holding Harry,
tightening his grip and rearing a little at the same time, so that Harrys
feet left the ground momentarily. We are a race apart and proud to
be so. . . . We will not permit you to walk from here, boasting that we
did your bidding!


FIGHT AND FLIGHT
Were not going to say anything like that! Harry shouted. We
know you didnt do anything because we wanted you to 
But nobody seemed to be listening to him. A bearded centaur to
ward the back of the crowd shouted, They came here unasked, they
must pay the consequences!
A roar of approval met these words and a duncolored centaur
shouted, They can join the woman!
You said you didnt hurt the innocent! shouted Hermione, real
tears sliding down her face now. We havent done anything to hurt
you, we havent used wands or threats, we just want to go back to
school, please let us go back 
We are not all like the traitor Firenze, human girl! shouted the
gray centaur, to more neighing roars of approval from his fellows.
Perhaps you thought us pretty talking horses? We are an ancient peo
ple who will not stand wizard invasions and insults! We do not recog
nize your laws, we do not acknowledge your superiority, we are 
But they did not hear what else centaurs were, for at that moment
there came a crashing noise on the edge of the clearing so loud that all
of them  Harry, Hermione, and the fifty or so centaurs filling the
clearing  looked around. Harrys centaur let him fall to the ground
again as his hands flew to his bow and quiver of arrows Hermione
had been dropped too, and Harry hurried toward her as two thick tree
trunks parted ominously and the monstrous form of Grawp the giant
appeared in the gap.
The centaurs nearest him backed into those behind. The clearing
was now a forest of bows and arrows waiting to be fired, all pointing
upward at the enormous grayish face now looming over them from
just beneath the thick canopy of branches. Grawps lopsided mouth
was gaping stupidly. They could see his bricklike yellow teeth glim
mering in the halflight, his dull sludgecolored eyes narrowed as he
squinted down at the creatures at his feet. Broken ropes trailed from
both ankles.


CHAPTER THIRTYTHREE
He opened his mouth even wider.
Hagger.
Harry did not know what hagger meant, or what language it was
from, nor did he much care  he was watching Grawps feet, which
were almost as long as Harrys whole body. Hermione gripped his arm
tightly the centaurs were quite silent, staring up at the giant, whose
huge, round head moved from side to side as he continued to peer
amongst them as though looking for something he had dropped.
Hagger! he said again, more insistently.
Get away from here, giant! called Magorian. You are not wel
come among us!
These words seemed to make no impression whatsoever on Grawp.
He stooped a little the centaurs arms tensed on their bows and then
bellowed, HAGGER!
A few of the centaurs looked worried now. Hermione, however,
gave a gasp.
Harry! she whispered. I think hes trying to say Hagrid!
At this precise moment Grawp caught sight of them, the only two
humans in a sea of centaurs. He lowered his head another foot or so,
staring intently at them. Harry could feel Hermione shaking as
Grawp opened his mouth wide again and said, in a deep, rumbling
voice, Hermy.
Goodness, said Hermione, gripping Harrys arm so tightly it was
growing numb and looking as though she was about to faint, he 
he remembered!
HERMY! roared Grawp. WHERE HAGGER?
I dont know! squealed Hermione, terrified. Im sorry, Grawp, I
dont know!
GRAWP WANT HAGGER!
One of the giants massive hands swooped down upon them 
Hermione let out a real scream, ran a few steps backward and fell over.
Wandless, Harry braced himself to punch, kick, bite, or whatever else


FIGHT AND FLIGHT
it took as the hand flew toward him and knocked a snowwhite cen
taur off his legs.
It was what the centaurs had been waiting for  Grawps out
stretched fingers were a foot from Harry when fifty arrows went soar
ing through the air at the giant, peppering his enormous face, causing
him to howl with pain and rage and straighten up again, rubbing his
face with his enormous hands, breaking off the arrow shafts but forc
ing the heads in still deeper.
He yelled and stamped his enormous feet and the centaurs scat
tered out of the way. Pebblesized droplets of Grawps blood showered
Harry as he pulled Hermione to her feet and the pair of them ran as
fast as they could for the shelter of the trees. Once there they looked
back  Grawp was snatching blindly at the centaurs as blood ran all
down his face they were retreating in disorder, galloping away
through the trees on the other side of the clearing. As Harry and
Hermione watched, Grawp gave another roar of fury and plunged af
ter them, smashing more trees aside as he went.
Oh no, said Hermione, quaking so badly that her knees gave way.
Oh, that was horrible. And he might kill them all. . . .
Im not that fussed, to be honest, said Harry bitterly.
The sounds of the galloping centaurs and the blundering giant
were growing fainter and fainter. As Harry listened to them his scar
gave another great throb and a wave of terror swept over him.
They had wasted so much time  they were even further from res
cuing Sirius than they had been when he had had the vision. Not only
had Harry managed to lose his wand but they were stuck in the mid
dle of the Forbidden Forest with no means of transport whatsoever.
Smart plan, he spat at Hermione, keen to release some of his fury.
Really smart plan. Where do we go from here?
We need to get back up to the castle, said Hermione faintly.
By the time weve done that, Siriusll probably be dead! said
Harry, kicking a nearby tree in temper there was a highpitched


CHAPTER THIRTYTHREE
chattering overhead and he looked up to see an angry bowtruckle flex
ing its long twiglike fingers at him.
Well, we cant do anything without wands, said Hermione hope
lessly, dragging herself up again. Anyway, Harry, how exactly were
you planning to get all the way to London?
Yeah, we were just wondering that, said a familiar voice from be
hind her.
Harry and Hermione moved instinctively together, peering through
the trees, as Ron came into sight, with Ginny, Neville, and Luna hur
rying along behind him. All of them looked a little the worse for
wear  there were several long scratches running the length of
Ginnys cheek, a large purple lump was swelling above Nevilles right
eye, Rons lip was bleeding worse than ever  but all were looking
rather pleased with themselves.
So, said Ron, pushing aside a lowhanging branch and holding
out Harrys wand, had any ideas?
How did you get away? asked Harry in amazement, taking his
wand from Ron.
Couple of Stunners, a Disarming Charm, Neville brought off a re
ally nice little Impediment Jinx, said Ron airily, now handing back
Hermiones wand too. But Ginny was best, she got Malfoy  Bat
Bogey Hex  it was superb, his whole face was covered in the great
flapping things. Anyway, we saw you heading into the forest out of the
window and followed. Whatve you done with Umbridge?
She got carried away, said Harry. By a herd of centaurs.
And they left you behind? asked Ginny, looking astonished.
No, they got chased off by Grawp, said Harry.
Whos Grawp? Luna asked interestedly.
Hagrids little brother, said Ron promptly. Anyway, never mind
that now. Harry, what did you find out in the fire? Has YouKnow
Who got Sirius or  ?
Yes, said Harry, as his scar gave another painful prickle, and Im


FIGHT AND FLIGHT
sure Sirius is still alive, but I cant see how were going to get there to
help him.
They all fell silent, looking rather scared. The problem facing them
seemed insurmountable.
Well, well have to fly, wont we? said Luna in the closest thing to
a matteroffact voice Harry had ever heard her use.
Okay, said Harry irritably, rounding on her, first of all, we
arent doing anything if youre including yourself in that, and second
of all, Rons the only one with a broomstick that isnt being guarded by
a security troll, so 
Ive got a broom! said Ginny.
Yeah, but youre not coming, said Ron angrily.
Excuse me, but I care what happens to Sirius as much as you do!
said Ginny, her jaw set so that her resemblance to Fred and George
was suddenly striking.
Youre too  Harry began.
Im three years older than you were when you fought YouKnow
Who over the Sorcerers Stone, she said fiercely, and its because of
me Malfoys stuck back in Umbridges office with giant flying bogeys
attacking him 
Yeah, but 
We were all in the D.A. together, said Neville quietly. It was all
supposed to be about fighting YouKnowWho, wasnt it? And this is
the first chance weve had to do something real  or was that all just
a game or something?
No  of course it wasnt  said Harry impatiently.
Then we should come too, said Neville simply. We want to help.
Thats right, said Luna, smiling happily.
Harrys eyes met Rons. He knew that Ron was thinking exactly
what he was If he could have chosen any members of the D.A. in ad
dition to himself, Ron, and Hermione to join him in the attempt to
rescue Sirius, he would not have picked Ginny, Neville, or Luna.


CHAPTER THIRTYTHREE
Well, it doesnt matter anyway, said Harry frustratedly, because
we still dont know how to get there 
I thought wed settled that? said Luna maddeningly. Were
flying!
Look, said Ron, barely containing his anger, you might be able
to fly without a broomstick but the rest of us cant sprout wings when
ever we 
There are other ways of flying than with broomsticks, said Luna
serenely.
I spose were going to ride on the back of the Kacky Snorgle or
whatever it is? Ron demanded.
The CrumpleHorned Snorkack cant fly, said Luna in a dignified
voice, but they can, and Hagrid says theyre very good at finding
places their riders are looking for.
Harry whirled around. Standing between two trees, their white
eyes gleaming eerily, were two thestrals, watching the whispered con
versation as though they understood every word.
Yes! he whispered, moving toward them. They tossed their reptil
ian heads, throwing back long black manes, and Harry stretched out
his hand eagerly and patted the nearest ones shining neck. How could
he ever have thought them ugly?
Is it those mad horse things? said Ron uncertainly, staring at a
point slightly to the left of the thestral Harry was patting. Those ones
you cant see unless youve watched someone snuff it?
Yeah, said Harry.
How many?
Just two.
Well, we need three, said Hermione, who was still looking a lit
tle shaken, but determined just the same.
Four, Hermione, said Ginny, scowling.
I think there are six of us, actually, said Luna calmly, counting.
Dont be stupid, we cant all go! said Harry angrily. Look, you


FIGHT AND FLIGHT
three  he pointed at Neville, Ginny, and Luna  youre not in
volved in this, youre not 
They burst into more protests. His scar gave another, more painful,
twinge. Every moment they delayed was precious he did not have
time to argue.
Okay, fine, its your choice, he said curtly. But unless we can find
more thestrals youre not going to be able 
Oh, more of them will come, said Ginny confidently, who like
Ron was squinting in quite the wrong direction, apparently under the
impression that she was looking at the horses.
What makes you think that?
Because in case you hadnt noticed, you and Hermione are both
covered in blood, she said coolly, and we know Hagrid lures thes
trals with raw meat, so thats probably why these two turned up in the
first place. . . .
Harry felt a soft tug on his robes at that moment and looked down
to see the closest thestral licking his sleeve, which was damp with
Grawps blood.
Okay, then, he said, a bright idea occurring. Ron and I will take
these two and go ahead, and Hermione can stay here with you three
and shell attract more thestrals 
Im not staying behind! said Hermione furiously.
Theres no need, said Luna, smiling. Look, here come more
now. . . . You two must really smell. . . .
Harry turned. No fewer than six or seven thestrals were picking
their way through the trees now, their great leathery wings folded
tight to their bodies, their eyes gleaming through the darkness. He
had no excuse now. . . .
All right, he said angrily, pick one and get on, then.


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y  F O U R
THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
H
arry wound his hand tightly into the mane of the nearest
thestral, placed a foot on a stump nearby, and scrambled
clumsily onto the horses silken back. It did not object, but twisted its
head around, fangs bared, and attempted to continue its eager licking
of his robes.
He found there was a way of lodging his knees behind the wing
joints that made him feel more secure and looked around at the oth
ers. Neville had heaved himself over the back of the next thestral and
was now attempting to swing one short leg over the creatures back.
Luna was already in place, sitting sidesaddle and adjusting her robes as
though she did this every day. Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, however,
were still standing motionless on the spot, openmouthed and staring.
What? he said.
Howre we supposed to get on? said Ron faintly. When we cant
see the things?
Oh its easy, said Luna, sliding obligingly from her thestral and
marching over to him, Hermione, and Ginny. Come here. . . .


THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
She pulled them over to the other thestrals standing around and
one by one managed to help them onto the backs of their mounts. All
three looked extremely nervous as she wound their hands into the
horses manes and told them to grip tightly before getting back onto
her own steed.
This is mad, Ron said faintly, moving his free hand gingerly up
and down his horses neck. Mad . . . if I could just see it 
Youd better hope it stays invisible, said Harry darkly. We all
ready, then?
They all nodded and he saw five pairs of knees tighten beneath
their robes.
Okay . . .
He looked down at the back of his thestrals glossy black head and
swallowed. Ministry of Magic, visitors entrance, London, then, he
said uncertainly. Er . . . if you know . . . where to go . . .
For a moment his thestral did nothing at all. Then, with a sweep
ing movement that nearly unseated him, the wings on either side ex
tended, the horse crouched slowly and then rocketed upward so fast
and so steeply that Harry had to clench his arms and legs tightly
around the horse to avoid sliding backward over its bony rump. He
closed his eyes and put his face down into the horses silky mane as
they burst through the topmost branches of the trees and soared out
into a bloodred sunset.
Harry did not think he had ever moved so fast The thestral
streaked over the castle, its wide wings hardly beating. The cooling air
was slapping Harrys face eyes screwed up against the rushing wind,
he looked around and saw his five fellows soaring along behind him,
each of them bent as low as possible into the neck of their thestral to
protect themselves from its slipstream.
They were over the Hogwarts grounds, they had passed Hogs
meade. Harry could see mountains and gullies below them. In the


CHAPTER THIRTYFOUR
falling darkness Harry saw small collections of lights as they passed
over more villages, then a winding road on which a single car was
beetling its way home through the hills. . . .
This is bizarre! Harry heard Ron yell from somewhere behind
him, and he imagined how it must feel to be speeding along at this
height with no visible means of support. . . .
Twilight fell The sky turned to a light, dusky purple littered with
tiny silver stars, and soon it was only the lights of Muggle towns that
gave them any clue of how far from the ground they were or how very
fast they were traveling. Harrys arms were wrapped tightly around his
horses neck as he willed it to go even faster. How much time had
elapsed since he had seen Sirius lying on the Department of Mysteries
floor? How much longer would he be able to resist Voldemort? All
Harry knew for sure was that Sirius had neither done as Voldemort
wanted, nor died, for he was convinced that either outcome would
cause him to feel Voldemorts jubilation or fury course through his
own body, making his scar sear as painfully as it had on the night Mr.
Weasley was attacked. . . .
On they flew through the gathering darkness Harrys face felt stiff
and cold, his legs numb from gripping the thestrals sides so tightly,
but he did not dare shift positions lest he slip. . . . He was deaf from
the thundering in his ears and his mouth was dry and frozen from the
rush of cold night air. He had lost all sense of how far they had come
all his faith was in the beast below him, still streaking purposefully
through the night, barely flapping its wings as it sped ever onward. . . .
If they were too late . . .
Hes still alive, hes still fighting, I can feel it. . . .
If Voldemort decided Sirius was not going to crack . . .
Id know. . . .
Harrys stomach gave a jolt. The thestrals head was suddenly point
ing toward the ground and he had actually slid forward a few inches
along its neck. They were descending at last. . . . He heard one of the


THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
girls shriek behind him and twisted around dangerously but could see
no sign of a falling body. . . . Presumably they had received a shock
from the change of position, just as he had. . . .
And now bright orange lights were growing larger and rounder on
all sides. They could see the tops of buildings, streams of headlights
like luminous insect eyes, squares of pale yellow that were windows.
Quite suddenly, it seemed, they were hurtling toward the pavement.
Harry gripped the thestral with every last ounce of his strength,
braced for a sudden impact, but the horse touched the dark ground as
lightly as a shadow and Harry slid from his back, looking around at
the street where the overflowing dumpster still stood a short way from
the vandalized telephone box, both drained of color in the flat orange
glare of the streetlights.
Ron landed a short way away and toppled immediately off his thes
tral onto the pavement.
Never again, he said, struggling to his feet. He made as though to
stride away from his thestral, but, unable to see it, collided with its
hindquarters and almost fell over again. Never, ever again . . . that
was the worst 
Hermione and Ginny touched down on either side of him. Both
slid off their mounts a little more gracefully than Ron, though with
similar expressions of relief at being back on firm ground. Neville
jumped down, shaking, but Luna dismounted smoothly.
Where do we go from here, then? she asked Harry in a politely
interested voice, as though this was all a rather interesting daytrip.
Over here, he said. He gave his thestral a quick, grateful pat, then
led the way quickly to the battered telephone box and opened the
door. Come on! he urged the others as they hesitated.
Ron and Ginny marched in obediently Hermione, Neville, and
Luna squashed themselves in after them Harry took one glance back
at the thestrals, now foraging for scraps of rotten food inside the
dumpster, then forced himself into the box after Luna.


CHAPTER THIRTYFOUR
Whoevers nearest the receiver, dial six two four four two! he said.
Ron did it, his arm bent bizarrely to reach the dial. As it whirred
back into place the cool female voice sounded inside the box, Wel
come to the Ministry of Magic. Please state your name and business.
Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, Harry said very
quickly, Ginny Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Luna Lovegood . . .
Were here to save someone, unless your Ministry can do it first!
Thank you, said the cool female voice. Visitors, please take the
badges and attach them to the front of your robes.
Half a dozen badges slid out of the metal chute where returned
coins usually appeared. Hermione scooped them up and handed them
mutely to Harry over Ginnys head he glanced at the topmost one.
HARRY POTTER
rescue mission
Visitor to the Ministry, you are required to submit to a search and
present your wand for registration at the security desk, which is lo
cated at the far end of the Atrium.
Fine! Harry said loudly, as his scar gave another throb. Now can
we move?
The floor of the telephone box shuddered and the pavement rose
up past the glass windows of the telephone box. The scavenging thes
trals were sliding out of sight, blackness closed over their heads, and
with a dull grinding noise they sank down into the depths of the Min
istry of Magic.
A chink of soft golden light hit their feet and, widening, rose up
their bodies. Harry bent his knees and held his wand as ready as he
could in such cramped conditions, peering through the glass to see
whether anybody was waiting for them in the Atrium, but it seemed
to be completely empty. The light was dimmer than it had been by
day. There were no fires burning under the mantelpieces set into the


THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
walls, but he saw as the lift slid smoothly to a halt that golden symbols
continued to twist sinuously in the dark blue ceiling.
The Ministry of Magic wishes you a pleasant evening, said the
womans voice.
The door of the telephone box burst open Harry toppled out of
it, followed by Neville and Luna. The only sound in the Atrium was
the steady rush of water from the golden fountain, where jets from the
wands of the witch and wizard, the point of the centaurs arrow, the
tip of the goblins hat, and the houseelf s ears continued to gush into
the surrounding pool.
Come on, said Harry quietly and the six of them sprinted off
down the hall, Harry in the lead, past the fountain, toward the desk
where the security man who had weighed Harrys wand had sat and
which was now deserted.
Harry felt sure that there ought to be a security person there, sure
that their absence was an ominous sign, and his feeling of foreboding
increased as they passed through the golden gates to the lifts. He
pressed the nearest down button and a lift clattered into sight almost
immediately, the golden grilles slid apart with a great, echoing clank
ing, and they dashed inside. Harry stabbed the number nine button,
the grilles closed with a bang, and the lift began to descend, jangling
and rattling. Harry had not realized how noisy the lifts were on the
day that he had come with Mr. Weasley  he was sure that the din
would raise every security person within the building, yet when the
lift halted, the cool female voice said, Department of Mysteries, and
the grilles slid open again, they stepped out into the corridor where
nothing was moving but the nearest torches, flickering in the rush of
air from the lift.
Harry turned toward the plain black door. After months and
months of dreaming about it, he was here at last. . . .
Lets go, he whispered, and he led the way down the corridor,
Luna right behind him, gazing around with her mouth slightly open.


CHAPTER THIRTYFOUR
Okay, listen, said Harry, stopping again within six feet of the
door. Maybe . . . maybe a couple of people should stay here as a 
as a lookout, and 
And howre we going to let you know somethings coming? asked
Ginny, her eyebrows raised. You could be miles away.
Were coming with you, Harry, said Neville.
Lets get on with it, said Ron firmly.
Harry still did not want to take them all with him, but it seemed he
had no choice. He turned to face the door and walked forward. Just as
it had in his dream, it swung open and he marched forward, leading
the others over the threshold.
They were standing in a large, circular room. Everything in here
was black including the floor and ceiling  identical, unmarked,
handleless black doors were set at intervals all around the black walls,
interspersed with branches of candles whose flames burned blue, their
cool, shimmering light reflected in the shining marble floor so that it
looked as though there was dark water underfoot.
Someone shut the door, Harry muttered.
He regretted giving this order the moment Neville had obeyed it.
Without the long chink of light from the torchlit corridor behind
them, the place became so dark that for a moment the only things they
could see were the bunches of shivering blue flames on the walls and
their ghostly reflections in the floor below.
In his dream, Harry had always walked purposefully across this
room to the door immediately opposite the entrance and walked on.
But there were around a dozen doors here. Just as he was gazing ahead
at the doors opposite him, trying to decide which was the right one,
there was a great rumbling noise and the candles began to move side
ways. The circular wall was rotating.
Hermione grabbed Harrys arm as though frightened the floor
might move too, but it did not. For a few seconds the blue flames
around them were blurred to resemble neon lines as the wall sped


THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
around and then, quite as suddenly as it had started, the rumbling
stopped and everything became stationary once again.
Harrys eyes had blue streaks burned into them it was all he could
see.
What was that about? whispered Ron fearfully.
I think it was to stop us knowing which door we came in from,
said Ginny in a hushed voice.
Harry realized at once that she was right He could no sooner have
picked the exit from the other doors than located an ant upon the jet
black floor. Meanwhile, the door through which they needed to pro
ceed could be any of the dozen surrounding them.
Howre we going to get back out? said Neville uncomfortably.
Well, that doesnt matter now, said Harry forcefully, blinking to
try and erase the blue lines from his vision, and clutching his wand
tighter than ever. We wont need to get out till weve found Sirius 
Dont go calling for him, though! Hermione said urgently, but
Harry had never needed her advice less his instinct was to keep as
quiet as possible for the time being.
Where do we go, then, Harry? Ron asked.
I dont  Harry began. He swallowed. In the dreams I went
through the door at the end of the corridor from the lifts into a dark
room  thats this one  and then I went through another door into
a room that kind of . . . glitters. We should try a few doors, he said
hastily. Ill know the right way when I see it. Cmon.
He marched straight at the door now facing him, the others follow
ing close behind him, set his left hand against its cool, shining surface,
raised his wand, ready to strike the moment it opened, and pushed. It
swung open easily.
After the darkness of the first room, the lamps hanging low on
golden chains from this ceiling gave the impression that this long rec
tangular room was much brighter, though there were no glittering,
shimmering lights such as Harry had seen in his dreams. The place


CHAPTER THIRTYFOUR
was quite empty except for a few desks and, in the very middle of the
room, an enormous glass tank of deepgreen water, big enough for all
of them to swim in, which contained a number of pearly white objects
that were drifting around lazily in the liquid.
Whatre those things? whispered Ron.
Dunno, said Harry.
Are they fish? breathed Ginny.
Aquavirius maggots! said Luna excitedly. Dad said the Ministry
were breeding 
No, said Hermione. She sounded odd. She moved forward to
look through the side of the tank. Theyre brains.
Brains?
Yes . . . I wonder what theyre doing with them?
Harry joined her at the tank. Sure enough, there could be no mis
take now that he saw them at close quarters. Glimmering eerily they
drifted in and out of sight in the depths of the green water, looking
something like slimy cauliflowers.
Lets get out of here, said Harry. This isnt right, we need to try
another door 
There are doors here too, said Ron, pointing around the walls.
Harrys heart sank how big was this place?
In my dream I went through that dark room into the second one,
he said. I think we should go back and try from there.
So they hurried back into the dark, circular room the ghostly
shapes of the brains were now swimming before Harrys eyes instead
of the blue candle flames.
Wait! said Hermione sharply, as Luna made to close the door of
the brain room behind them. Flagrate!
She drew with her wand in midair and a fiery X appeared on the
door. No sooner had the door clicked shut behind them than there
was a great rumbling, and once again the wall began to revolve very
fast, but now there was a great redgold blur in amongst the faint blue,


THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
and when all became still again, the fiery cross still burned, showing
the door they had already tried.
Good thinking, said Harry. Okay, lets try this one 
Again he strode directly at the door facing him and pushed it open,
his wand still raised, the others at his heels.
This room was larger than the last, dimly lit and rectangular, and the
center of it was sunken, forming a great stone pit some twenty feet be
low them. They were standing on the topmost tier of what seemed to
be stone benches running all around the room and descending in steep
steps like an amphitheater, or the courtroom in which Harry had been
tried by the Wizengamot. Instead of a chained chair, however, there was
a raised stone dais in the center of the lowered floor, and upon this dais
stood a stone archway that looked so ancient, cracked, and crumbling
that Harry was amazed the thing was still standing. Unsupported by
any surrounding wall, the archway was hung with a tattered black cur
tain or veil which, despite the complete stillness of the cold surround
ing air, was fluttering very slightly as though it had just been touched.
Whos there? said Harry, jumping down onto the bench below.
There was no answering voice, but the veil continued to flutter and sway.
Careful! whispered Hermione.
Harry scrambled down the benches one by one until he reached the
stone bottom of the sunken pit. His footsteps echoed loudly as he
walked slowly toward the dais. The pointed archway looked much
taller from where he stood now than when he had been looking down
on it from above. Still the veil swayed gently, as though somebody had
just passed through it.
Sirius? Harry spoke again, but much more quietly now that he
was nearer.
He had the strangest feeling that there was someone standing right
behind the veil on the other side of the archway. Gripping his wand
very tightly, he edged around the dais, but there was nobody there. All
that could be seen was the other side of the tattered black veil.


CHAPTER THIRTYFOUR
Lets go, called Hermione from halfway up the stone steps. This
isnt right, Harry, come on, lets go. . . .
She sounded scared, much more scared than she had in the room
where the brains swam, yet Harry thought the archway had a kind of
beauty about it, old though it was. The gently rippling veil intrigued
him he felt a very strong inclination to climb up on the dais and walk
through it.
Harry, lets go, okay? said Hermione more forcefully.
Okay, he said, but he did not move. He had just heard some
thing. There were faint whispering, murmuring noises coming from
the other side of the veil.
What are you saying? he said very loudly, so that the words
echoed all around the surrounding stone benches.
Nobodys talking, Harry! said Hermione, now moving over to
him.
Someones whispering behind there, he said, moving out of her
reach and continuing to frown at the veil. Is that you, Ron?
Im here, mate, said Ron, appearing around the side of the arch
way.
Cant anyone else hear it? Harry demanded, for the whispering
and murmuring was becoming louder without really meaning to put
it there, he found his foot was on the dais.
I can hear them too, breathed Luna, joining them around the
side of the archway and gazing at the swaying veil. There are people
in there!
What do you mean, in there? demanded Hermione, jumping
down from the bottom step and sounding much angrier than the oc
casion warranted. There isnt any in there, its just an archway, theres
no room for anybody to be there  Harry, stop it, come away 
She grabbed his arm and pulled, but he resisted.
Harry, we are supposed to be here for Sirius! she said in a high
pitched, strained voice.


THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
Sirius, Harry repeated, still gazing, mesmerized, at the continu
ously swaying veil. Yeah . . .
And then something slid back into place in his brain Sirius, cap
tured, bound, and tortured, and he was staring at this archway. . . .
He took several paces back from the dais and wrenched his eyes
from the veil.
Lets go, he said.
Thats what Ive been trying to  well, come on, then! said
Hermione, and she led the way back around the dais. On the other
side, Ginny and Neville were staring, apparently entranced, at the veil
too. Without speaking, Hermione took hold of Ginnys arm, Ron
Nevilles, and they marched them firmly back to the lowest stone
bench and clambered all the way back up to the door.
What dyou reckon that arch was? Harry asked Hermione as they
regained the dark circular room.
I dont know, but whatever it was, it was dangerous, she said
firmly, again inscribing a fiery cross upon the door.
Once more the wall spun and became still again. Harry approached
a door at random and pushed. It did not move.
Whats wrong? said Hermione.
Its . . . locked . . . said Harry, throwing his weight at the door,
but it did not budge.
This is it, then, isnt it? said Ron excitedly, joining Harry in the
attempt to force the door open. Bound to be!
Get out of the way! said Hermione sharply. She pointed her
wand at the place where a lock would have been on an ordinary door
and said, Alohomora!
Nothing happened.
Siriuss knife! said Harry, and he pulled it out from inside his
robes and slid it into the crack between the door and the wall. The
others all watched eagerly as he ran it from top to bottom, withdrew
it, and then flung his shoulder again at the door. It remained as firmly


CHAPTER THIRTYFOUR
shut as ever. What was more, when Harry looked down at the knife,
he saw that the blade had melted.
Right, were leaving that room, said Hermione decisively.
But what if thats the one? said Ron, staring at it with a mixture
of apprehension and longing.
It cant be, Harry could get through all the doors in his dream,
said Hermione, marking the door with another fiery cross as Harry re
placed the nowuseless handle of Siriuss knife in his pocket.
You know what could be in there? said Luna eagerly, as the wall
started to spin yet again.
Something blibbering, no doubt, said Hermione under her
breath, and Neville gave a nervous little laugh.
The wall slid back to a halt and Harry, with a feeling of increasing
desperation, pushed the next door open.
This is it!
He knew it at once by the beautiful, dancing, diamondsparkling
light. As Harrys eyes became more accustomed to the brilliant glare
he saw clocks gleaming from every surface, large and small, grandfa
ther and carriage, hanging in spaces between the bookcases or stand
ing on desks ranging the length of the room, so that a busy, relentless
ticking filled the place like thousands of minuscule, marching foot
steps. The source of the dancing, diamondbright light was a towering
crystal bell jar that stood at the far end of the room.
This way!
Harrys heart was pumping frantically now that he knew they were
on the right track. He led the way forward down the narrow space be
tween the lines of the desks, heading, as he had done in his dream, for
the source of the light, the crystal bell jar quite as tall as he was that
stood on a desk and appeared to be full of a billowing, glittering
wind.
Oh look ! said Ginny, as they drew nearer, pointing at the very
heart of the bell jar.


THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
Drifting along in the sparkling current inside was a tiny, jewel
bright egg. As it rose in the jar it cracked open and a hummingbird
emerged, which was carried to the very top of the jar, but as it fell on
the draft, its feathers became bedraggled and damp again, and by the
time it had been borne back to the bottom of the jar it had been en
closed once more in its egg.
Keep going! said Harry sharply, because Ginny showed signs of
wanting to stop and watch the eggs progress back into a bird.
You dawdled enough by that old arch! she said crossly, but fol
lowed him past the bell jar to the only door behind it.
This is it, Harry said again, and his heart was now pumping so
hard and fast he felt it must interfere with his speech. Its through
here 
He glanced around at them all. They had their wands out and
looked suddenly serious and anxious. He looked back at the door
and pushed. It swung open.
They were there, they had found the place high as a church and
full of nothing but towering shelves covered in small, dusty, glass orbs.
They glimmered dully in the light issuing from more candle brackets
set at intervals along the shelves. Like those in the circular room be
hind them, their flames were burning blue. The room was very cold.
Harry edged forward and peered down one of the shadowy aisles
between two rows of shelves. He could not hear anything nor see the
slightest sign of movement.
You said it was row ninetyseven, whispered Hermione.
Yeah, breathed Harry, looking up at the end of the closest row.
Beneath the branch of blueglowing candles protruding from it glim
mered the silver figure .
We need to go right, I think, whispered Hermione, squinting to
the next row. Yes . . . thats fiftyfour. . . .
Keep your wands out, Harry said softly.
They crept forward, staring behind them as they went on down the


CHAPTER THIRTYFOUR
long alleys of shelves, the farther ends of which were in near total
darkness. Tiny, yellowing labels had been stuck beneath each glass orb
on the shelf. Some of them had a weird, liquid glow others were as
dull and dark within as blown lightbulbs.
They passed row eightyfour . . . eightyfive . . . Harry was listen
ing hard for the slightest sound of movement, but Sirius might be
gagged now, or else unconscious . . . or, said an unbidden voice inside
his head, he might already be dead. . . .
Id have felt it, he told himself, his heart now hammering against his
Adams apple. Id already know. . . .
Ninetyseven! whispered Hermione.
They stood grouped around the end of the row, gazing down the
alley beside it. There was nobody there.
Hes right down at the end, said Harry, whose mouth had be
come slightly dry. You cant see properly from here. . . .
And he led them forward, between the towering rows of glass balls,
some of which glowed softly as they passed. . . .
He should be near here, whispered Harry, convinced that every
step was going to bring the ragged form of Sirius into view upon the
darkened floor. Anywhere here . . . really close . . .
Harry? said Hermione tentatively, but he did not want to re
spond. His mouth was very dry now.
Somewhere about . . . here . . . he said.
They had reached the end of the row and emerged into more dim
candlelight. There was nobody there at all. All was echoing, dusty
silence.
He might be . . . Harry whispered hoarsely, peering down the
alley next door. Or maybe . . . He hurried to look down the one
beyond that.
Harry? said Hermione again.
What? he snarled.


THE DEPARTMENT
OF MYSTERIES
I . . . I dont think Sirius is here.
Nobody spoke. Harry did not want to look at any of them. He felt
sick. He did not understand why Sirius was not here. He had to be
here. This was where he, Harry, had seen him. . . .
He ran up the space at the end of the rows, staring down them.
Empty aisle after empty aisle flickered past. He ran the other way,
back past his staring companions. There was no sign of Sirius any
where, nor any hint of a struggle.
Harry? Ron called.
What?
He did not want to hear what Ron had to say, did not want to hear
Ron tell him he had been stupid, or suggest that they ought to go back
to Hogwarts. But the heat was rising in his face and he felt as though
he would like to skulk down here in the darkness for a long while be
fore facing the brightness of the Atrium above and the others accus
ing stares. . . .
Have you seen this? said Ron.
What? said Harry, but eagerly this time  it had to be a sign that
Sirius had been there, a clue  he strode back to where they were all
standing, a little way down row ninetyseven, but found nothing ex
cept Ron staring at one of the dusty glass spheres on the shelves.
What? Harry repeated glumly.
Its  its got your name on, said Ron.
Harry moved a little closer. Ron was pointing at one of the small
glass spheres that glowed with a dull inner light, though it was very
dusty and appeared not to have been touched for many years.
My name? said Harry blankly.
He stepped forward. Not as tall as Ron, he had to crane his neck to
read the yellowish label affixed to the shelf right beneath the dusty
glass ball. In spidery writing was written a date of some sixteen years
previously, and below that


CHAPTER THIRTYFOUR
S. P. T. to A. P. W. B. D.
Dark Lord
and ? Harry Potter
Harry stared at it.
What is it? Ron asked, sounding unnerved. Whats your name
doing down here?
He glanced along at the other labels on that stretch of shelf.
Im not here, he said, sounding perplexed. None of the rest of us
are here. . . .
Harry, I dont think you should touch it, said Hermione sharply,
as he stretched out his hand.
Why not? he said. Its something to do with me, isnt it?
Dont, Harry, said Neville suddenly. Harry looked around at
him. Nevilles round face was shining slightly with sweat. He looked
as though he could not take much more suspense.
Its got my name on, said Harry.
And feeling slightly reckless, he closed his fingers around the dusty
balls surface. He had expected it to feel cold, but it did not. On the
contrary, it felt as though it had been lying in the sun for hours, as
though the glow of light within was warming it. Expecting, even hop
ing, that something dramatic was going to happen, something excit
ing that might make their long and dangerous journey worthwhile
after all, he lifted the glass ball down from its shelf and stared at it.
Nothing whatsoever happened. The others moved in closer around
Harry, gazing at the orb as he brushed it free of the clogging dust.
And then, from right behind them, a drawling voice said, Very
good, Potter. Now turn around, nice and slowly, and give that to me.


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y  F I V E
BEYOND THE VEIL
B
lack shapes were emerging out of thin air all around them, block
ing their way left and right eyes glinted through slits in hoods, a
dozen lit wand tips were pointing directly at their hearts. Ginny gave
a gasp of horror.
To me, Potter, repeated the drawling voice of Lucius Malfoy as he
held out his hand, palm up.
Harrys insides plummeted sickeningly. They were trapped and
outnumbered two to one.
To me, said Malfoy yet again.
Wheres Sirius? Harry said.
Several of the Death Eaters laughed. A harsh female voice from the
midst of the shadowy figures to Harrys left said triumphantly, The
Dark Lord always knows!
Always, echoed Malfoy softly. Now, give me the prophecy,
Potter.
I want to know where Sirius is!
I want to know where Sirius is! mimicked the woman to his left.
She and her fellow Death Eaters had closed in so that they were


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
mere feet away from Harry and the others, the light from their wands
dazzling Harrys eyes.
Youve got him, said Harry, ignoring the rising panic in his chest,
the dread he had been fighting since they had first entered the ninety
seventh row. Hes here. I know he is.
The little baby woke up fwightened and fort what it dweamed was
twoo, said the woman in a horrible, mockbaby voice. Harry felt Ron
stir beside him.
Dont do anything, he muttered. Not yet 
The woman who had mimicked him let out a raucous scream of
laughter.
You hear him? You hear him? Giving instructions to the other chil
dren as though he thinks of fighting us!
Oh, you dont know Potter as I do, Bellatrix, said Malfoy softly.
He has a great weakness for heroics the Dark Lord understands this
about him. Now give me the prophecy, Potter.
I know Sirius is here, said Harry, though panic was causing his
chest to constrict and he felt as though he could not breathe properly.
I know youve got him!
More of the Death Eaters laughed, though the woman still laughed
loudest of all.
Its time you learned the difference between life and dreams, Pot
ter, said Malfoy. Now give me the prophecy, or we start using
wands.
Go on, then, said Harry, raising his own wand to chest height. As
he did so, the five wands of Ron, Hermione, Neville, Ginny, and Luna
rose on either side of him. The knot in Harrys stomach tightened. If
Sirius really was not here, he had led his friends to their deaths for no
reason at all. . . .
But the Death Eaters did not strike.
Hand over the prophecy and no one need get hurt, said Malfoy
coolly.


BEYOND THE VEIL
It was Harrys turn to laugh.
Yeah, right! he said. I give you this  prophecy, is it? And youll
just let us skip off home, will you?
The words were hardly out of his mouth when the female Death
Eater shrieked, Accio Proph 
Harry was just ready for her. He shouted Protego! before she had
finished her spell, and though the glass sphere slipped to the tips of his
fingers he managed to cling on to it.
Oh, he knows how to play, little bitty baby Potter, she said, her
mad eyes staring through the slits in her hood. Very well, then 
I TOLD YOU, NO! Lucius Malfoy roared at the woman. If you
smash it  !
Harrys mind was racing. The Death Eaters wanted this dusty
spunglass sphere. He had no interest in it. He just wanted to get
them all out of this alive, make sure that none of his friends paid a ter
rible price for his stupidity . . .
The woman stepped forward, away from her fellows, and pulled off
her hood. Azkaban had hollowed Bellatrix Lestranges face, making it
gaunt and skulllike, but it was alive with a feverish, fanatical glow.
You need more persuasion? she said, her chest rising and falling
rapidly. Very well  take the smallest one, she ordered the Death
Eaters beside her. Let him watch while we torture the little girl. Ill
do it.
Harry felt the others close in around Ginny. He stepped sideways
so that he was right in front of her, the prophecy held up to his chest.
Youll have to smash this if you want to attack any of us, he told
Bellatrix. I dont think your boss will be too pleased if you come back
without it, will he?
She did not move she merely stared at him, the tip of her tongue
moistening her thin mouth.
So, said Harry, what kind of prophecy are we talking about
anyway?


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
He could not think what to do but to keep talking. Nevilles arm
was pressed against his, and he could feel him shaking. He could feel
one of the others quickened breath on the back of his head. He was
hoping they were all thinking hard about ways to get out of this, be
cause his mind was blank.
What kind of prophecy? repeated Bellatrix, the grin fading from
her face. You jest, Harry Potter.
Nope, not jesting, said Harry, his eyes flicking from Death Eater
to Death Eater, looking for a weak link, a space through which they
could escape. How come Voldemort wants it?
Several of the Death Eaters let out low hisses.
You dare speak his name? whispered Bellatrix.
Yeah, said Harry, maintaining his tight grip on the glass ball, ex
pecting another attempt to bewitch it from him. Yeah, Ive got no
problem saying Vol 
Shut your mouth! Bellatrix shrieked. You dare speak his name
with your unworthy lips, you dare besmirch it with your halfbloods
tongue, you dare 
Did you know hes a halfblood too? said Harry recklessly.
Hermione gave a little moan in his ear. Voldemort? Yeah, his mother
was a witch but his dad was a Muggle  or has he been telling you lot
hes pureblood?
STUPEF 
NO !
A jet of red light had shot from the end of Bellatrix Lestranges
wand, but Malfoy had deflected it. His spell caused hers to hit the
shelf a foot to the left of Harry and several of the glass orbs there
shattered.
Two figures, pearly white as ghosts, fluid as smoke, unfurled them
selves from the fragments of broken glass upon the floor and each began
to speak. Their voices vied with each other, so that only fragments


BEYOND THE VEIL
of what they were saying could be heard over Malfoy and Bellatrixs
shouts.
. . . at the Solstice will come a new . . . said the figure of an old,
bearded man.
DO NOT ATTACK! WE NEED THE PROPHECY!
He dared  he dares  shrieked Bellatrix incoherently.  He
stands there  filthy halfblood 
WAIT UNTIL WEVE GOT THE PROPHECY! bawled Malfoy.
. . . and none will come after . . . said the figure of a young woman.
The two figures that had burst from the shattered spheres had
melted into thin air. Nothing remained of them or their erstwhile
homes but fragments of glass upon the floor. They had, however,
given Harry an idea. The problem was going to be conveying it to the
others.
You havent told me whats so special about this prophecy Im sup
posed to be handing over, he said, playing for time. He moved his
foot slowly sideways, feeling around for someone elses.
Do not play games with us, Potter, said Malfoy.
Im not playing games, said Harry, half his mind on the conver
sation, half on his wandering foot. And then he found someones toes
and pressed down upon them. A sharp intake of breath behind him
told him they were Hermiones.
What? she whispered.
Dumbledore never told you that the reason you bear that scar was
hidden in the bowels of the Department of Mysteries? said Malfoy
sneeringly.
I  what? said Harry, and for a moment he quite forgot his plan.
What about my scar?
What? whispered Hermione more urgently behind him.
Can this be? said Malfoy, sounding maliciously delighted some
of the Death Eaters were laughing again, and under cover of their


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
laughter, Harry hissed to Hermione, moving his lips as little as possi
ble, Smash shelves 
Dumbledore never told you? Malfoy repeated. Well, this ex
plains why you didnt come earlier, Potter, the Dark Lord wondered
why 
 when I say go 
 you didnt come running when he showed you the place where
it was hidden in your dreams. He thought natural curiosity would
make you want to hear the exact wording. . . .
Did he? said Harry. Behind him he felt rather than heard
Hermione passing his message to the others and he sought to keep
talking, to distract the Death Eaters. So he wanted me to come and
get it, did he? Why?
Why? Malfoy sounded incredulously delighted. Because the
only people who are permitted to retrieve a prophecy from the De
partment of Mysteries, Potter, are those about whom it was made, as
the Dark Lord discovered when he attempted to use others to steal it
for him.
And why did he want to steal a prophecy about me?
About both of you, Potter, about both of you . . . Havent you ever
wondered why the Dark Lord tried to kill you as a baby?
Harry stared into the slitted eyeholes through which Malfoys gray
eyes were gleaming. Was this prophecy the reason Harrys parents had
died, the reason he carried his lightningbolt scar? Was the answer to
all of this clutched in his hand?
Someone made a prophecy about Voldemort and me? he said
quietly, gazing at Lucius Malfoy, his fingers tightening over the warm
glass sphere in his hand. It was hardly larger than a Snitch and still
gritty with dust. And hes made me come and get it for him? Why
couldnt he come and get it himself?
Get it himself? shrieked Bellatrix on a cackle of mad laughter.


BEYOND THE VEIL
The Dark Lord, walk into the Ministry of Magic, when they are so
sweetly ignoring his return? The Dark Lord, reveal himself to the Au
rors, when at the moment they are wasting their time on my dear
cousin?
So hes got you doing his dirty work for him, has he? said Harry.
Like he tried to get Sturgis to steal it  and Bode?
Very good, Potter, very good . . . said Malfoy slowly. But the
Dark Lord knows you are not unintell 
NOW! yelled Harry.
Five different voices behind him bellowed REDUCTO ! Five
curses flew in five different directions and the shelves opposite them
exploded as they hit. The towering structure swayed as a hundred glass
spheres burst apart, pearlywhite figures unfurled into the air and
floated there, their voices echoing from who knew what longdead
past amid the torrent of crashing glass and splintered wood now rain
ing down upon the floor 
RUN! Harry yelled, and as the shelves swayed precariously and
more glass spheres began to pour from above, he seized a handful of
Hermiones robes and dragged her forward, one arm over his head as
chunks of shelf and shards of glass thundered down upon them. A
Death Eater lunged forward through the cloud of dust and Harry el
bowed him hard in the masked face. They were all yelling, there were
cries of pain, thunderous crashes as the shelves collapsed upon them
selves, weirdly echoing fragments of the Seers unleashed from their
spheres 
Harry found the way ahead clear and saw Ron, Ginny, and Luna
sprint past him, their arms over their heads. Something heavy struck
him on the side of the face but he merely ducked his head and
sprinted onward a hand caught him by the shoulder he heard Her
mione shout Stupefy! and the hand released him at once.
They were at the end of row ninetyseven Harry turned right and


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
began to sprint in earnest. He could hear footsteps right behind him
and Hermiones voice urging Neville on. The door through which
they had come was ajar straight ahead, Harry could see the glittering
light of the bell jar, he pelted through it, the prophecy still clutched
tight and safe in his hand, waited for the others to hurtle over the
threshold before slamming the door behind them 
Colloportus! gasped Hermione and the door sealed itself with an
odd squelching noise.
Where  where are the others? gasped Harry.
He had thought that Ron, Luna, and Ginny had been ahead of
them, that they would be waiting in this room, but there was nobody
there.
They must have gone the wrong way! whispered Hermione, ter
ror in her face.
Listen! whispered Neville.
Footsteps and shouts echoed from behind the door they had just
sealed. Harry put his ear close to the door to listen and heard Lucius
Malfoy roar Leave Nott, leave him, I say, the Dark Lord will not care
for Notts injuries as much as losing that prophecy  Jugson, come
back here, we need to organize! Well split into pairs and search, and
dont forget, be gentle with Potter until weve got the prophecy, you
can kill the others if necessary  Bellatrix, Rodolphus, you take the
left, Crabbe, Rabastan, go right  Jugson, Dolohov, the door straight
ahead  Macnair and Avery, through here  Rookwood, over
there  Mulciber, come with me!
What do we do? Hermione asked Harry, trembling from head to
foot.
Well, we dont stand here waiting for them to find us, for a start,
said Harry. Lets get away from this door. . . .
They ran, quietly as they could, past the shimmering bell jar where
the tiny egg was hatching and unhatching, toward the exit into the


BEYOND THE VEIL
circular hallway at the far end of the room. They were almost there
when Harry heard something large and heavy collide with the door
Hermione had charmed shut.
Stand aside! said a rough voice. Alohomora!
As the door flew open, Harry, Hermione, and Neville dived under
desks. They could see the bottom of the two Death Eaters robes
drawing nearer, their feet moving rapidly.
They mightve run straight through to the hall, said the rough
voice.
Check under the desks, said another.
Harry saw the knees of the Death Eaters bend. Poking his wand out
from under the desk he shouted, STUPEFY !
A jet of red light hit the nearest Death Eater he fell backward into
a grandfather clock and knocked it over. The second Death Eater,
however, had leapt aside to avoid Harrys spell and now pointed his
own wand at Hermione, who had crawled out from under the desk to
get a better aim.
Avada 
Harry launched himself across the floor and grabbed the Death
Eater around the knees, causing him to topple and his aim to go awry.
Neville overturned his desk in his anxiety to help pointing his wand
wildly at the struggling pair he cried, EXPELLIARMUS !
Both Harrys and the Death Eaters wands flew out of their hands
and soared back toward the entrance to the Hall of Prophecy both
scrambled to their feet and charged after them, the Death Eater in
front and Harry hot on his heels, Neville bringing up the rear, plainly
horrorstruck at what he had done.
Get out of the way, Harry! yelled Neville, clearly determined to
repair the damage.
Harry flung himself sideways as Neville took aim again and
shouted, STUPEFY !


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
The jet of red light flew right over the Death Eaters shoulder and
hit a glassfronted cabinet on the wall full of variously shaped hour
glasses. The cabinet fell to the floor and burst apart, glass flying every
where, then sprang back up onto the wall, fully mended, then fell
down again, and shattered 
The Death Eater had snatched up his wand, which lay on the floor
beside the glittering bell jar. Harry ducked down behind another desk
as the man turned  his mask had slipped so that he could not see, he
ripped it off with his free hand and shouted, STUP 
STUPEFY ! screamed Hermione, who had just caught up with
them. The jet of red light hit the Death Eater in the middle of his
chest he froze, his arm still raised, his wand fell to the floor with a
clatter and he collapsed backward toward the bell jar. Harry expected
to hear a clunk, for the man to hit solid glass and slide off the jar onto
the floor, but instead, his head sank through the surface of the bell jar
as though it was nothing but a soap bubble and he came to rest,
sprawled on his back on the table, with his head lying inside the jar
full of glittering wind.
Accio Wand ! cried Hermione. Harrys wand flew from a dark cor
ner into her hand and she threw it to him.
Thanks, he said, right, lets get out of 
Look out! said Neville, horrified, staring at the Death Eaters
head in the bell jar.
All three of them raised their wands again, but none of them
struck. They were all gazing, openmouthed, appalled, at what was
happening to the mans head.
It was shrinking very fast, growing balder and balder, the black hair
and stubble retracting into his skull, his cheeks smooth, his skull
round and covered with a peachlike fuzz. . . .
A babys head now sat grotesquely on top of the thick, muscled
neck of the Death Eater as he struggled to get up again. But even as
they watched, their mouths open, the head began to swell to its previ


BEYOND THE VEIL
ous proportions again, thick black hair was sprouting from the pate
and chin. . . .
Its time, said Hermione in an awestruck voice. Time . . .
The Death Eater shook his ugly head again, trying to clear it, but
before he could pull himself together again, it began to shrink back to
babyhood once more. . . .
There was a shout from a room nearby, then a crash and a scream.
RON? Harry yelled, turning quickly from the monstrous trans
formation taking place before them. GINNY? LUNA?
Harry! Hermione screamed.
The Death Eater had pulled his head out of the bell jar. His ap
pearance was utterly bizarre, his tiny babys head bawling loudly while
his thick arms flailed dangerously in all directions, narrowly missing
Harry, who ducked. Harry raised his wand but to his amazement
Hermione seized his arm.
You cant hurt a baby!
There was no time to argue the point. Harry could hear more foot
steps growing louder from the Hall of Prophecy they had just left and
knew, too late, that he ought not to have shouted and given away their
position.
Come on! he said again, and leaving the ugly babyheaded Death
Eater staggering behind them, they took off for the door that stood
ajar at the other end of the room, leading back into the black hallway.
They had run halfway toward it when Harry saw through the open
door two more Death Eaters running across the black room toward
them. Veering left he burst instead into a small, dark, cluttered office
and slammed the door behind them.
Collo  began Hermione, but before she could complete the spell
the door had burst open again and the two Death Eaters had come
hurtling inside. With a cry of triumph, both yelled, IMPEDIMENTA!
Harry, Hermione, and Neville were all knocked backward off their
feet. Neville was thrown over the desk and disappeared from view,


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
Hermione smashed into a bookcase and was promptly deluged in a
cascade of heavy books the back of Harrys head slammed into the
stone wall behind him, tiny lights burst in front of his eyes, and for a
moment he was too dizzy and bewildered to react.
WEVE GOT HIM! yelled the Death Eater nearest Harry, IN
AN OFFICE OFF 
Silencio! cried Hermione, and the mans voice was extinguished.
He continued to mouth through the hole in his mask, but no sound
came out he was thrust aside by his fellow.
Petrificus Totalus! shouted Harry, as the second Death Eater raised
his wand. His arms and legs snapped together and he fell forward,
facedown onto the rug at Harrys feet, stiff as a board and unable to
move at all.
Well done, Ha 
But the Death Eater Hermione had just struck dumb made a sud
den slashing movement with his wand from which flew a streak of
what looked like purple flame. It passed right across Hermiones chest
she gave a tiny oh! as though of surprise and then crumpled onto the
floor where she lay motionless.
HERMIONE!
Harry fell to his knees beside her as Neville crawled rapidly toward
her from under the desk, his wand held up in front of him. The Death
Eater kicked out hard at Nevilles head as he emerged  his foot
broke Nevilles wand in two and connected with his face  Neville
gave a howl of pain and recoiled, clutching his mouth and nose. Harry
twisted around, his own wand held high, and saw that the Death
Eater had ripped off his mask and was pointing his wand directly at
Harry, who recognized the long, pale, twisted face from the Daily
Prophet Antonin Dolohov, the wizard who had murdered the
Prewetts.
Dolohov grinned. With his free hand, he pointed from the
prophecy still clutched in Harrys hand, to himself, then at Hermione.


BEYOND THE VEIL
Though he could no longer speak his meaning could not have been
clearer Give me the prophecy, or you get the same as her. . . .
Like you wont kill us all the moment I hand it over anyway! said
Harry.
A whine of panic inside his head was preventing him thinking
properly. He had one hand on Hermiones shoulder, which was still
warm, yet did not dare look at her properly. Dont let her be dead, dont
let her be dead, its my fault if shes dead. . . .
Whaddever you do, Harry, said Neville fiercely from under the
desk, lowering his hands to show a clearly broken nose and blood
pouring down his mouth and chin, dond gib it to him!
Then there was a crash outside the door, and Dolohov looked over
his shoulder  the babyheaded Death Eater had appeared in the
doorway, his head bawling, his great fists still flailing uncontrollably at
everything around him.
Harry seized his chance PETRIFICUS TOTALUS!
The spell hit Dolohov before he could block it, and he toppled for
ward across his comrade, both of them rigid as boards and unable to
move an inch.
Hermione, Harry said at once, shaking her as the babyheaded
Death Eater blundered out of sight again. Hermione, wake up. . . .
Whaddid he do to her? said Neville, crawling out from under the
desk again to kneel at her other side, blood streaming from his rapidly
swelling nose. I dunno. . . .
Neville groped for Hermiones wrist.
Dats a pulse, Harry, Ib sure id is. . . .
Such a powerful wave of relief swept through Harry that for a mo
ment he felt lightheaded.
Shes alive?
Yeah, I dink so. . . .
There was a pause in which Harry listened hard for the sounds of


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
more footsteps, but all he could hear were the whimpers and blunder
ings of the baby Death Eater in the next room.
Neville, were not far from the exit, Harry whispered. Were
right next to that circular room. . . . If we can just get you across it
and find the right door before any more Death Eaters come, Ill bet
you can get Hermione up the corridor and into the lift. . . . Then you
could find someone. . . . Raise the alarm . . .
And whad are you going do do? said Neville, mopping his bleed
ing nose with his sleeve and frowning at Harry.
Ive got to find the others, said Harry.
Well, Ib going do find dem wid you, said Neville firmly.
But Hermione 
Well dake her wid us, said Neville firmly. Ill carry her  youre
bedder at fighding dem dan I ab 
He stood up and seized one of Hermiones arms, glared at Harry,
who hesitated, then grabbed the other and helped hoist Hermiones
limp form over Nevilles shoulders.
Wait, said Harry, snatching up Hermiones wand from the floor
and shoving it into Nevilles hand, youd better take this. . . .
Neville kicked aside the broken fragments of his own wand as they
walked slowly toward the door.
My grans going do kill be, said Neville thickly, blood spattering
from his nose as he spoke, dat was by dads old wand. . . .
Harry stuck his head out of the door and looked around cautiously.
The babyheaded Death Eater was screaming and banging into
things, toppling grandfather clocks and overturning desks, bawling
and confused, while the glass cabinet that Harry now suspected had
contained TimeTurners continued to fall, shatter, and repair itself on
the wall behind them.
Hes never going to notice us, he whispered. Cmon . . . keep
close behind me. . . .


BEYOND THE VEIL
They crept out of the office and back toward the door into the
black hallway, which now seemed completely deserted. They walked a
few steps forward, Neville tottering slightly due to Hermiones
weight. The door of the Time Room swung shut behind them, and
the walls began to rotate once more. The recent blow on the back of
Harrys head seemed to have unsteadied him he narrowed his eyes,
swaying slightly, until the walls stopped moving again. With a sinking
heart Harry saw that Hermiones fiery crosses had faded from the
doors.
So which way dyou reck  ?
But before they could make a decision as to which way to try, a
door to their right sprang open and three people fell out of it.
Ron! croaked Harry, dashing toward them. Ginny  are you
all  ?
Harry, said Ron, giggling weakly, lurching forward, seizing the
front of Harrys robes and gazing at him with unfocused eyes. There
you are. . . . Ha ha ha . . . You look funny, Harry. . . . Youre all messed
up. . . .
Rons face was very white and something dark was trickling from
the corner of his mouth. Next moment his knees had given way, but
he still clutched the front of Harrys robes, so that Harry was pulled
into a kind of bow.
Ginny? Harry said fearfully. What happened?
But Ginny shook her head and slid down the wall into a sitting po
sition, panting and holding her ankle.
I think her ankles broken, I heard something crack, whispered
Luna, who was bending over her and who alone seemed to be unhurt.
Four of them chased us into a dark room full of planets, it was a very
odd place, some of the time we were just floating in the dark 
Harry, we saw Uranus up close! said Ron, still giggling feebly.
Get it, Harry? We saw Uranus  ha ha ha 


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
A bubble of blood grew at the corner of Rons mouth and burst.
Anyway, one of them grabbed Ginnys foot, I used the Reductor
Curse and blew up Pluto in his face, but . . .
Luna gestured hopelessly at Ginny, who was breathing in a very
shallow way, her eyes still closed.
And what about Ron? said Harry fearfully, as Ron continued to
giggle, still hanging off the front of Harrys robes.
I dont know what they hit him with, said Luna sadly, but hes
gone a bit funny, I could hardly get him along at all. . . .
Harry, said Ron, pulling Harrys ear down to his mouth and still
giggling weakly, you know who this girl is, Harry? Shes Loony . . .
Loony Lovegood . . . ha ha ha . . .
Weve got to get out of here, said Harry firmly. Luna, can you
help Ginny?
Yes, said Luna, sticking her wand behind her ear for safekeeping,
putting an arm around Ginnys waist and pulling her up.
Its only my ankle, I can do it myself! said Ginny impatiently, but
next moment she had collapsed sideways and grabbed Luna for sup
port. Harry pulled Rons arm over his shoulder just as, so many
months ago, he had pulled Dudleys. He looked around They had a
oneintwelve chance of getting the exit right the first time 
He heaved Ron toward a door they were within a few feet of it
when another door across the hall burst open and three Death Eaters
sped into the hall, led by Bellatrix Lestrange.
There they are! she shrieked.
Stunning Spells shot across the room Harry smashed his way
through the door ahead, flung Ron unceremoniously from him, and
ducked back to help Neville in with Hermione. They were all over the
threshold just in time to slam the door against Bellatrix.
Colloportus! shouted Harry, and he heard three bodies slam into
the door on the other side.


BEYOND THE VEIL
It doesnt matter! said a mans voice. There are other ways in 
WEVE GOT THEM, THEYRE HERE!
Harry spun around. They were back in the Brain Room and, sure
enough, there were doors all around the walls. He could hear footsteps
in the hall behind them as more Death Eaters came running to join
the first.
Luna  Neville  help me!
The three of them tore around the room, sealing the doors as they
went Harry crashed into a table and rolled over the top of it in his
haste to reach the next door.
Colloportus!
There were footsteps running along behind the doors every now
and then another heavy body would launch itself against one, so it
creaked and shuddered. Luna and Neville were bewitching the doors
along the opposite wall  then, as Harry reached the very top of the
room, he heard Luna cry, Collo  aaaaaaaaargh . . .
He turned in time to see her flying through the air. Five Death
Eaters were surging into the room through the door she had not
reached in time Luna hit a desk, slid over its surface and onto the
floor on the other side where she lay sprawled, as still as Hermione.
Get Potter! shrieked Bellatrix, and she ran at him. He dodged her
and sprinted back up the room he was safe as long as they thought
they might hit the prophecy 
Hey! said Ron, who had staggered to his feet and was now totter
ing drunkenly toward Harry, giggling. Hey, Harry, there are brains in
here, ha ha ha, isnt that weird, Harry?
Ron, get out of the way, get down 
But Ron had already pointed his wand at the tank.
Honest, Harry, theyre brains  look  Accio Brain!
The scene seemed momentarily frozen. Harry, Ginny, and Neville
and each of the Death Eaters turned in spite of themselves to watch


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
the top of the tank as a brain burst from the green liquid like a leap
ing fish. For a moment it seemed suspended in midair, then it soared
toward Ron, spinning as it came, and what looked like ribbons of
moving images flew from it, unraveling like rolls of film 
Ha ha ha, Harry, look at it  said Ron, watching it disgorge its
gaudy innards. Harry, come and touch it, bet its weird 
RON, NO!
Harry did not know what would happen if Ron touched the tenta
cles of thought now flying behind the brain, but he was sure it would
not be anything good. He darted forward but Ron had already caught
the brain in his outstretched hands.
The moment they made contact with his skin, the tentacles began
wrapping themselves around Rons arms like ropes.
Harry, look whats happen  no  no, I dont like it  no,
stop  stop 
But the thin ribbons were spinning around Rons chest now. He
tugged and tore at them as the brain was pulled tight against him like
an octopuss body.
Diffindo! yelled Harry, trying to sever the feelers wrapping them
selves tightly around Ron before his eyes, but they would not break.
Ron fell over, still thrashing against his bonds.
Harry, itll suffocate him! screamed Ginny, immobilized by her
broken ankle on the floor  then a jet of red light flew from one of
the Death Eaters wands and hit her squarely in the face. She keeled
over sideways and lay there unconscious.
STUBEFY ! shouted Neville, wheeling around and waving
Hermiones wand at the oncoming Death Eaters. STUBEFY,
STUBEFY !
But nothing happened  one of the Death Eaters shot their own
Stunning Spell at Neville it missed him by inches. Harry and Neville
were now the only two left fighting the five Death Eaters, two of
whom sent streams of silver light like arrows past them that left craters


BEYOND THE VEIL
in the wall behind them. Harry ran for it as Bellatrix Lestrange
sprinted right at him. Holding the prophecy high above his head he
sprinted back up the room all he could think of doing was to draw
the Death Eaters away from the others.
It seemed to have worked. They streaked after him, knocking chairs
and tables flying but not daring to bewitch him in case they hurt the
prophecy, and he dashed through the only door still open, the one
through which the Death Eaters themselves had come. Inwardly pray
ing that Neville would stay with Ron  find some way of releasing
him  he ran a few feet into the new room and felt the floor
vanish 
He was falling down steep stone step after steep stone step, bounc
ing on every tier until at last, with a crash that knocked all the breath
out of his body, he landed flat on his back in the sunken pit where the
stone archway stood on its dais. The whole room was ringing with the
Death Eaters laughter. He looked up and saw the five who had been
in the Brain Room descending toward him, while as many more
emerged through other doorways and began leaping from bench to
bench toward him. Harry got to his feet though his legs were trem
bling so badly they barely supported him. The prophecy was still
miraculously unbroken in his left hand, his wand clutched tightly in
his right. He backed away, looking around, trying to keep all the
Death Eaters within his sights. The back of his legs hit something
solid he had reached the dais where the archway stood. He climbed
backward onto it.
The Death Eaters all halted, gazing at him. Some were panting as
hard as he was. One was bleeding badly Dolohov, freed of the full
BodyBind, was leering, his wand pointing straight at Harrys face.
Potter, your race is run, drawled Lucius Malfoy, pulling off his
mask. Now hand me the prophecy like a good boy. . . .
Let  let the others go, and Ill give it to you! said Harry
desperately.


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
A few of the Death Eaters laughed.
You are not in a position to bargain, Potter, said Lucius Malfoy,
his pale face flushed with pleasure. You see, there are ten of us and
only one of you . . . or hasnt Dumbledore ever taught you how to
count?
Hes dot alone! shouted a voice from above them. Hes still god
be!
Harrys heart sank. Neville was scrambling down the stone benches
toward them, Hermiones wand held fast in his trembling hand.
Neville  no  go back to Ron 
STUBEFY ! Neville shouted again, pointing his wand at each
Death Eater in turn, STUBEFY ! STUBE 
One of the largest Death Eaters seized Neville from behind, pin
ioning his arms to his sides. He struggled and kicked several of the
Death Eaters laughed.
Its Longbottom, isnt it? sneered Lucius Malfoy. Well, your
grandmother is used to losing family members to our cause. . . . Your
death will not come as a great shock. . . .
Longbottom? repeated Bellatrix, and a truly evil smile lit her
gaunt face. Why, I have had the pleasure of meeting your parents,
boy. . . .
I DOE YOU HAB! roared Neville, and he fought so hard against
his captors encircling grip that the Death Eater shouted, Someone
Stun him!
No, no, no, said Bellatrix. She looked transported, alive with ex
citement as she glanced at Harry, then back at Neville. No, lets see
how long Longbottom lasts before he cracks like his parents. . . . Un
less Potter wants to give us the prophecy 
DOND GIB ID DO DEM! roared Neville, who seemed beside
himself, kicking and writhing as Bellatrix drew nearer to him and his
captor, her wand raised. DOND GIB ID DO DEM, HARRY!
Bellatrix raised her wand. Crucio!


BEYOND THE VEIL
Neville screamed, his legs drawn up to his chest so that the Death
Eater holding him was momentarily holding him off the ground. The
Death Eater dropped him and he fell to the floor, twitching and
screaming in agony.
That was just a taster! said Bellatrix, raising her wand so that
Nevilles screams stopped and he lay sobbing at her feet. She turned
and gazed up at Harry. Now, Potter, either give us the prophecy, or
watch your little friend die the hard way!
Harry did not have to think there was no choice. The prophecy
was hot with the heat from his clutching hand as he held it out. Mal
foy jumped forward to take it.
Then, high above them, two more doors burst open and five more
people sprinted into the room Sirius, Lupin, Moody, Tonks, and
Kingsley.
Malfoy turned and raised his wand, but Tonks had already sent a
Stunning Spell right at him. Harry did not wait to see whether it had
made contact, but dived off the dais out of the way. The Death Eaters
were completely distracted by the appearance of the members of the
Order, who were now raining spells down upon them as they jumped
from step to step toward the sunken floor Through the darting bod
ies, the flashes of light, Harry could see Neville crawling along. He
dodged another jet of red light and flung himself flat on the ground to
reach Neville.
Are you okay? he yelled, as another spell soared inches over their
heads.
Yes, said Neville, trying to pull himself up.
And Ron?
I dink hes all right  he was still fighding the brain when I
left 
The stone floor between them exploded as a spell hit it, leaving a
crater right where Nevilles hand had been seconds before. Both
scrambled away from the spot, then a thick arm came out of nowhere,


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
seized Harry around the neck and pulled him upright, so that his toes
were barely touching the floor.
Give it to me, growled a voice in his ear, give me the
prophecy 
The man was pressing so tightly on Harrys windpipe that he could
not breathe  through watering eyes he saw Sirius dueling with a
Death Eater some ten feet away. Kingsley was fighting two at once
Tonks, still halfway up the tiered seats, was firing spells down at Bel
latrix  nobody seemed to realize that Harry was dying. . . . He
turned his wand backward toward the mans side, but had no breath
to utter an incantation, and the mans free hand was groping toward
the hand in which Harry was grasping the prophecy 
AARGH!
Neville had come lunging out of nowhere Unable to articulate a
spell, he had jabbed Hermiones wand hard into the eyehole of the
Death Eaters mask. The man relinquished Harry at once with a howl of
pain and Harry whirled around to face him and gasped, STUPEFY !
The Death Eater keeled over backward and his mask slipped off. It
was Macnair, Buckbeaks wouldbe killer, one of his eyes now swollen
and bloodshot.
Thanks! Harry said to Neville, pulling him aside as Sirius and his
Death Eater lurched past, dueling so fiercely that their wands were
blurs. Then Harrys foot made contact with something round and
hard and he slipped  for a moment he thought he had dropped the
prophecy, then saw Moodys magic eye spinning away across the floor.
Its owner was lying on his side, bleeding from the head, and his at
tacker was now bearing down upon Harry and Neville Dolohov, his
long pale face twisted with glee.
Tarantallegra! he shouted, his wand pointing at Neville, whose
legs went immediately into a kind of frenzied tap dance, unbalancing
him and causing him to fall to the floor again. Now, Potter 


BEYOND THE VEIL
He made the same slashing movement with his wand that he had
used on Hermione just as Harry yelled, Protego!
Harry felt something streak across his face like a blunt knife but the
force of it knocked him sideways, and he fell over Nevilles jerking
legs, but the Shield Charm had stopped the worst of the spell.
Dolohov raised his wand again. Accio Proph 
Sirius hurtled out of nowhere, rammed Dolohov with his shoulder,
and sent him flying out of the way. The prophecy had again flown to
the tips of Harrys fingers but he had managed to cling to it. Now Sir
ius and Dolohov were dueling, their wands flashing like swords,
sparks flying from their wand tips 
Dolohov drew back his wand to make the same slashing movement
he had used on Harry and Hermione. Springing up, Harry yelled,
Petrificus Totalus! Once again, Dolohovs arms and legs snapped to
gether and he keeled over backward, landing with a crash on his back.
Nice one! shouted Sirius, forcing Harrys head down as a pair of
Stunning Spells flew toward them. Now I want you to get out of 
They both ducked again. A jet of green light had narrowly missed
Sirius across the room Harry saw Tonks fall from halfway up the
stone steps, her limp form toppling from stone seat to stone seat, and
Bellatrix, triumphant, running back toward the fray.
Harry, take the prophecy, grab Neville, and run! Sirius yelled,
dashing to meet Bellatrix. Harry did not see what happened next
Kingsley swayed across his field of vision, battling with the pock
marked Rookwood, now maskless another jet of green light flew
over Harrys head as he launched himself toward Neville 
Can you stand? he bellowed in Nevilles ear, as Nevilles legs jerked
and twitched uncontrollably. Put your arm round my neck 
Neville did so  Harry heaved  Nevilles legs were still flying in
every direction, they would not support him and then, out of
nowhere, a man lunged at them. Both fell backward, Nevilles legs


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
waving wildly like an overturned beetles, Harry with his left arm held
up in the air to try and save the small glass ball from being smashed.
The prophecy, give me the prophecy, Potter! snarled Lucius Mal
foys voice in his ear, and Harry felt the tip of Malfoys wand pressing
hard between his ribs.
No  get  off  me . . . Neville  catch it!
Harry flung the prophecy across the floor, Neville spun himself
around on his back and scooped the ball to his chest. Malfoy pointed
the wand instead at Neville, but Harry jabbed his own wand back over
his shoulder and yelled, Impedimenta!
Malfoy was blasted off his back. As Harry scrambled up again he
looked around and saw Malfoy smash into the dais on which Sirius
and Bellatrix were now dueling. Malfoy aimed his wand at Harry and
Neville again, but before he could draw breath to strike, Lupin had
jumped between them.
Harry, round up the others and GO!
Harry seized Neville by the shoulder of his robes and lifted him
bodily onto the first tier of stone steps. Nevilles legs twitched and
jerked and would not support his weight. Harry heaved again with all
the strength he possessed and they climbed another step 
A spell hit the stone bench at Harrys heel. It crumbled away and
he fell back to the step below Neville sank to the ground, his legs still
jerking and thrashing, and thrust the prophecy into his pocket.
Come on! said Harry desperately, hauling at Nevilles robes. Just
try and push with your legs 
He gave another stupendous heave and Nevilles robes tore all along
the left seam  the small spunglass ball dropped from his pocket
and before either of them could catch it, one of Nevilles floundering
feet kicked it. It flew some ten feet to their right and smashed on the
step beneath them. As both of them stared at the place where it had
broken, appalled at what had happened, a pearlywhite figure with


BEYOND THE VEIL
hugely magnified eyes rose into the air, unnoticed by any but them.
Harry could see its mouth moving, but in all the crashes and screams
and yells surrounding them, not one word of the prophecy could he
hear. The figure stopped speaking and dissolved into nothingness.
Harry, Ib sorry! cried Neville, his face anguished as his legs con
tinued to flounder, Ib so sorry, Harry, I didnd bean do 
It doesnt matter! Harry shouted. Just try and stand, lets get out
of 
Dubbledore! said Neville, his sweaty face suddenly transported,
staring over Harrys shoulder.
What?
DUBBLEDORE!
Harry turned to look where Neville was staring. Directly above
them, framed in the doorway from the Brain Room, stood Albus
Dumbledore, his wand aloft, his face white and furious. Harry felt a
kind of electric charge surge through every particle of his body  they
were saved.
Dumbledore sped down the steps past Neville and Harry, who had
no more thought of leaving. Dumbledore was already at the foot of
the steps when the Death Eaters nearest realized he was there. There
were yells one of the Death Eaters ran for it, scrabbling like a monkey
up the stone steps opposite. Dumbledores spell pulled him back as
easily and effortlessly as though he had hooked him with an invisible
line 
Only one couple were still battling, apparently unaware of the new
arrival. Harry saw Sirius duck Bellatrixs jet of red light He was laugh
ing at her. Come on, you can do better than that! he yelled, his voice
echoing around the cavernous room.
The second jet of light hit him squarely on the chest.
The laughter had not quite died from his face, but his eyes widened
in shock.


CHAPTER THIRTYFIVE
Harry released Neville, though he was unaware of doing so. He was
jumping down the steps again, pulling out his wand, as Dumbledore
turned to the dais too.
It seemed to take Sirius an age to fall. His body curved in a grace
ful arc as he sank backward through the ragged veil hanging from the
arch. . . .
And Harry saw the look of mingled fear and surprise on his god
fathers wasted, oncehandsome face as he fell through the ancient
doorway and disappeared behind the veil, which fluttered for a mo
ment as though in a high wind and then fell back into place.
Harry heard Bellatrix Lestranges triumphant scream, but knew it
meant nothing  Sirius had only just fallen through the archway, he
would reappear from the other side any second. . . .
But Sirius did not reappear.
SIRIUS! Harry yelled, SIRIUS!
He had reached the floor, his breath coming in searing gasps. Sirius
must be just behind the curtain, he, Harry, would pull him back out
again. . . .
But as he reached the ground and sprinted toward the dais, Lupin
grabbed Harry around the chest, holding him back.
Theres nothing you can do, Harry 
Get him, save him, hes only just gone through!
Its too late, Harry 
We can still reach him 
Harry struggled hard and viciously, but Lupin would not let go. . . .
Theres nothing you can do, Harry . . . nothing. . . . Hes gone.


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y  S I X
THE ONLY ONE
HE EVER FEARED
H
e hasnt gone! Harry yelled.
He did not believe it, he would not believe it still he
fought Lupin with every bit of strength he had Lupin did not under
stand, people hid behind that curtain, he had heard them whispering
the first time he had entered the room  Sirius was hiding, simply
lurking out of sight 
SIRIUS! he bellowed, SIRIUS!
He cant come back, Harry, said Lupin, his voice breaking as he
struggled to contain Harry. He cant come back, because hes d 
HE  IS  NOT  DEAD! roared Harry. SIRIUS!
There was movement going on around them, pointless bustling,
the flashes of more spells. To Harry it was meaningless noise, the de
flected curses flying past them did not matter, nothing mattered ex
cept that Lupin stop pretending that Sirius, who was standing feet
from them behind that old curtain, was not going to emerge at any
moment, shaking back his dark hair and eager to reenter the battle 
Lupin dragged Harry away from the dais, Harry still staring at the
archway, angry at Sirius now for keeping him waiting 


CHAPTER THIRTYSIX
But some part of him realized, even as he fought to break free from
Lupin, that Sirius had never kept him waiting before. . . . Sirius had
risked everything, always, to see Harry, to help him. . . . If Sirius was
not reappearing out of that archway when Harry was yelling for him
as though his life depended on it, the only possible explanation was
that he could not come back. . . . That he really was . . .
Dumbledore had most of the remaining Death Eaters grouped in
the middle of the room, seemingly immobilized by invisible ropes.
MadEye Moody had crawled across the room to where Tonks lay and
was attempting to revive her. Behind the dais there were still flashes of
light, grunts, and cries  Kingsley had run forward to continue Sir
iuss duel with Bellatrix.
Harry?
Neville had slid down the stone benches one by one to the place
where Harry stood. Harry was no longer struggling against Lupin,
who maintained a precautionary grip on his arm nevertheless.
Harry . . . Ib really sorry. . . . said Neville. His legs were still
dancing uncontrollably. Was dat man  was Sirius Black a  a
friend of yours?
Harry nodded.
Here, said Lupin quietly, and pointing his wand at Nevilles legs
he said, Finite. The spell was lifted. Nevilles legs fell back onto the
floor and remained still. Lupins face was pale. Lets  lets find the
others. Where are they all, Neville?
Lupin turned away from the archway as he spoke. It sounded as
though every word was causing him pain.
Deyre all back dere, said Neville. A brain addacked Ron bud I
dink hes all righd  and Herbiones unconscious, bud we could feel
a bulse 
There was a loud bang and a yell from behind the dais. Harry saw
Kingsley, yelling in pain, hit the ground. Bellatrix Lestrange turned


THE ONLY ONE
HE EVER FEARED
tail and ran as Dumbledore whipped around. He aimed a spell at her
but she deflected it. She was halfway up the steps now 
Harry  no! cried Lupin, but Harry had already ripped his arm
from Lupins slackened grip.
SHE KILLED SIRIUS! bellowed Harry. SHE KILLED HIM
 ILL KILL HER!
And he was off, scrambling up the stone benches. People were
shouting behind him but he did not care. The hem of Bellatrixs robes
whipped out of sight ahead and they were back in the room where the
brains were swimming. . . .
She aimed a curse over her shoulder. The tank rose into the air and
tipped. Harry was deluged in the foulsmelling potion within. The
brains slipped and slid over him and began spinning their long, col
ored tentacles, but he shouted, Wingardium Leviosa! and they flew
into the air away from him. Slipping and sliding he ran on toward the
door. He leapt over Luna, who was groaning on the floor, past Ginny,
who said, Harry  what  ? past Ron, who giggled feebly, and
Hermione, who was still unconscious. He wrenched open the door
into the circular black hall and saw Bellatrix disappearing through a
door on the other side of the room  beyond her was the corridor
leading back to the lifts.
He ran, but she had slammed the door behind her and the walls
had begun to rotate again. Once more he was surrounded by streaks
of blue light from the whirling candelabra.
Wheres the exit? he shouted desperately, as the wall rumbled to a
halt again. Wheres the way out?
The room seemed to have been waiting for him to ask. The door
right behind him flew open, and the corridor toward the lifts stretched
ahead of him, torchlit and empty. He ran. . . .
He could hear a lift clattering ahead of him. He sprinted up the
passageway, swung around the corner, and slammed his fist onto the


CHAPTER THIRTYSIX
button to call a second lift. It jangled and banged lower and lower the
grilles slid open and Harry dashed inside, now hammering the button
marked Atrium. The doors slid shut and he was rising. . . .
He forced his way out of the lift before the grilles were fully open
and looked around. Bellatrix was almost at the telephone lift at the
other end of the hall, but she looked back as he sprinted toward her,
and aimed another spell at him. He dodged behind the Fountain of
Magical Brethren the spell zoomed past him and hit the wrought gold
gates at the other end of the Atrium so that they rang like bells. There
were no more footsteps. She had stopped running. He crouched be
hind the statues, listening.
Come out, come out, little Harry! she called in her mockbaby voice,
which echoed off the polished wooden floors. What did you come af
ter me for, then? I thought you were here to avenge my dear cousin!
I am! shouted Harry, and a score of ghostly Harrys seemed to
chorus I am! I am! I am! all around the room.
Aaaaaah . . . did you love him, little baby Potter?
Hatred rose in Harry such as he had never known before. He flung
himself out from behind the fountain and bellowed Crucio!
Bellatrix screamed. The spell had knocked her off her feet, but she
did not writhe and shriek with pain as Neville had  she was already
on her feet again, breathless, no longer laughing. Harry dodged be
hind the golden fountain again  her counterspell hit the head of the
handsome wizard, which was blown off and landed twenty feet away,
gouging long scratches into the wooden floor.
Never used an Unforgivable Curse before, have you, boy? she
yelled. She had abandoned her baby voice now. You need to mean
them, Potter! You need to really want to cause pain  to enjoy it 
righteous anger wont hurt me for long  Ill show you how it is
done, shall I? Ill give you a lesson 
Harry had been edging around the fountain on the other side. She
screamed, Crucio! and he was forced to duck down again as the cen


THE ONLY ONE
HE EVER FEARED
taurs arm, holding its bow, spun off and landed with a crash on the
floor a short distance from the golden wizards head.
Potter, you cannot win against me! she cried. He could hear her
moving to the right, trying to get a clear shot of him. He backed
around the statue away from her, crouching behind the centaurs legs,
his head level with the houseelf s. I was and am the Dark Lords
most loyal servant, I learned the Dark Arts from him, and I know
spells of such power that you, pathetic little boy, can never hope to
compete 
Stupefy! yelled Harry. He had edged right around to where the
goblin stood beaming up at the now headless wizard and taken aim at
her back as she peered around the fountain for him. She reacted so fast
he barely had time to duck.
Protego!
The jet of red light, his own Stunning Spell, bounced back at him.
Harry scrambled back behind the fountain, and one of the goblins
ears went flying across the room.
Potter, I am going to give you one chance! shouted Bellatrix.
Give me the prophecy  roll it out toward me now  and I may
spare your life!
Well, youre going to have to kill me, because its gone! Harry
roared  and as he shouted it, pain seared across his forehead. His
scar was on fire again, and he felt a surge of fury that was quite un
connected with his own rage. And he knows! said Harry with a mad
laugh to match Bellatrixs own. Your dear old mate Voldemort knows
its gone! Hes not going to be happy with you, is he?
What? What do you mean? she cried, and for the first time there
was fear in her voice.
The prophecy smashed when I was trying to get Neville up the
steps! What do you think Voldemortll say about that, then?
His scar seared and burned. . . . The pain of it was making his eyes
stream. . . .


CHAPTER THIRTYSIX
LIAR! she shrieked, but he could hear the terror behind the anger
now. YOUVE GOT IT, POTTER, AND YOU WILL GIVE IT
TO ME  Accio Prophecy! ACCIO PROPHECY !
Harry laughed again because he knew it would incense her, the
pain building in his head so badly he thought his skull might burst.
He waved his empty hand from behind the oneeared goblin and
withdrew it quickly as she sent another jet of green light flying at him.
Nothing there! he shouted. Nothing to summon! It smashed
and nobody heard what it said, tell your boss that 
No! she screamed. It isnt true, youre lying  MASTER, I
TRIED, I TRIED  DO NOT PUNISH ME 
Dont waste your breath! yelled Harry, his eyes screwed up against
the pain in his scar, now more terrible than ever. He cant hear you
from here!
Cant I, Potter? said a high, cold voice.
Harry opened his eyes.
Tall, thin, and blackhooded, his terrible snakelike face white and
gaunt, his scarlet, slitpupiled eyes staring . . . Lord Voldemort had
appeared in the middle of the hall, his wand pointing at Harry who
stood frozen, quite unable to move.
So you smashed my prophecy? said Voldemort softly, staring at
Harry with those pitiless red eyes. No, Bella, he is not lying. . . . I see
the truth looking at me from within his worthless mind. . . . Months
of preparation, months of effort . . . and my Death Eaters have let
Harry Potter thwart me again. . . .
Master, I am sorry, I knew not, I was fighting the Animagus
Black! sobbed Bellatrix, flinging herself down at Voldemorts feet as
he paced slowly nearer. Master, you should know 
Be quiet, Bella, said Voldemort dangerously. I shall deal with
you in a moment. Do you think I have entered the Ministry of Magic
to hear your sniveling apologies?
But Master  he is here  he is below 


THE ONLY ONE
HE EVER FEARED
Voldemort paid no attention.
I have nothing more to say to you, Potter, he said quietly. You
have irked me too often, for too long. AVADA KEDAVRA!
Harry had not even opened his mouth to resist. His mind was
blank, his wand pointing uselessly at the floor.
But the headless golden statue of the wizard in the fountain had
sprung alive, leaping from its plinth, and landed on the floor with a
crash between Harry and Voldemort. The spell merely glanced off its
chest as the statue flung out its arms, protecting Harry.
What  ? said Voldemort, staring around. And then he
breathed, Dumbledore!
Harry looked behind him, his heart pounding. Dumbledore was
standing in front of the golden gates.
Voldemort raised his wand and sent another jet of green light at
Dumbledore, who turned and was gone in a whirling of his cloak
next second he had reappeared behind Voldemort and waved his
wand toward the remnants of the fountain the other statues sprang to
life too. The statue of the witch ran at Bellatrix, who screamed and
sent spells streaming uselessly off its chest, before it dived at her, pin
ning her to the floor. Meanwhile, the goblin and the houseelf scuttled
toward the fireplaces set along the wall, and the onearmed centaur
galloped at Voldemort, who vanished and reappeared beside the pool.
The headless statue thrust Harry backward, away from the fight, as
Dumbledore advanced on Voldemort and the golden centaur can
tered around them both.
It was foolish to come here tonight, Tom, said Dumbledore
calmly. The Aurors are on their way 
By which time I shall be gone, and you dead! spat Voldemort. He
sent another Killing Curse at Dumbledore but missed, instead hitting
the security guards desk, which burst into flame.
Dumbledore flicked his own wand. The force of the spell that em
anated from it was such that Harry, though shielded by his stone


CHAPTER THIRTYSIX
guard, felt his hair stand on end as it passed, and this time Voldemort
was forced to conjure a shining silver shield out of thin air to deflect
it. The spell, whatever it was, caused no visible damage to the shield,
though a deep, gonglike note reverberated from it, an oddly chilling
sound. . . .
You do not seek to kill me, Dumbledore? called Voldemort, his
scarlet eyes narrowed over the top of the shield. Above such brutality,
are you?
We both know that there are other ways of destroying a man,
Tom, Dumbledore said calmly, continuing to walk toward Volde
mort as though he had not a fear in the world, as though nothing had
happened to interrupt his stroll up the hall. Merely taking your life
would not satisfy me, I admit 
There is nothing worse than death, Dumbledore! snarled
Voldemort.
You are quite wrong, said Dumbledore, still closing in upon
Voldemort and speaking as lightly as though they were discussing the
matter over drinks. Harry felt scared to see him walking along, unde
fended, shieldless. He wanted to cry out a warning, but his headless
guard kept shunting him backward toward the wall, blocking his
every attempt to get out from behind it. Indeed, your failure to un
derstand that there are things much worse than death has always been
your greatest weakness 
Another jet of green light flew from behind the silver shield. This
time it was the onearmed centaur, galloping in front of Dumbledore,
that took the blast and shattered into a hundred pieces, but before the
fragments had even hit the floor, Dumbledore had drawn back his
wand and waved it as though brandishing a whip. A long thin flame
flew from the tip it wrapped itself around Voldemort, shield and all.
For a moment, it seemed Dumbledore had won, but then the fiery
rope became a serpent, which relinquished its hold upon Voldemort
at once and turned, hissing furiously, to face Dumbledore.


THE ONLY ONE
HE EVER FEARED
Voldemort vanished. The snake reared from the floor, ready to
strike 
There was a burst of flame in midair above Dumbledore just as
Voldemort reappeared, standing on the plinth in the middle of the
pool where so recently the five statues had stood.
Look out ! Harry yelled.
But even as he shouted, one more jet of green light had flown at
Dumbledore from Voldemorts wand and the snake had struck 
Fawkes swooped down in front of Dumbledore, opened his beak
wide, and swallowed the jet of green light whole. He burst into flame
and fell to the floor, small, wrinkled, and flightless. At the same mo
ment, Dumbledore brandished his wand in one, long, fluid move
ment  the snake, which had been an instant from sinking its fangs
into him, flew high into the air and vanished in a wisp of dark smoke
the water in the pool rose up and covered Voldemort like a cocoon of
molten glass 
For a few seconds Voldemort was visible only as a dark, rippling,
faceless figure, shimmering and indistinct upon the plinth, clearly
struggling to throw off the suffocating mass 
Then he was gone, and the water fell with a crash back into its
pool, slopping wildly over the sides, drenching the polished floor.
MASTER! screamed Bellatrix.
Sure it was over, sure Voldemort had decided to flee, Harry made to
run out from behind his statue guard, but Dumbledore bellowed,
Stay where you are, Harry!
For the first time, Dumbledore sounded frightened. Harry could
not see why. The hall was quite empty but for themselves, the sobbing
Bellatrix still trapped under her statue, and the tiny baby Fawkes
croaking feebly on the floor 
And then Harrys scar burst open. He knew he was dead it was
pain beyond imagining, pain past endurance 
He was gone from the hall, he was locked in the coils of a creature


CHAPTER THIRTYSIX
with red eyes, so tightly bound that Harry did not know where his
body ended and the creatures began. They were fused together,
bound by pain, and there was no escape 
And when the creature spoke, it used Harrys mouth, so that in his
agony he felt his jaw move. . . .
Kill me now, Dumbledore. . . .
Blinded and dying, every part of him screaming for release, Harry
felt the creature use him again. . . .
If death is nothing, Dumbledore, kill the boy. . . .
Let the pain stop, thought Harry. Let him kill us. . . . End it, Dumb
ledore. . . . Death is nothing compared to this. . . .
And Ill see Sirius again. . . .
And as Harrys heart filled with emotion, the creatures coils loos
ened, the pain was gone, Harry was lying facedown on the floor, his
glasses gone, shivering as though he lay upon ice, not wood. . . .
And there were voices echoing through the hall, more voices than
there should have been Harry opened his eyes, saw his glasses lying at
the heel of the headless statue that had been guarding him, but which
now lay flat on its back, cracked and immobile. He put them on and
raised his head an inch to find Dumbledores crooked nose inches
from his own.
Are you all right, Harry?
Yes, said Harry, shaking so violently he could not hold his head
up properly. Yeah, Im  wheres Voldemort, where  who are all
these  whats 
The Atrium was full of people. The floor was reflecting emerald
green flames that had burst into life in all the fireplaces along one wall,
and a stream of witches and wizards was emerging from them. As
Dumbledore pulled him back to his feet, Harry saw the tiny gold stat
ues of the houseelf and the goblin leading a stunnedlooking Cor
nelius Fudge forward.
He was there! shouted a scarletrobed man with a ponytail, who


THE ONLY ONE
HE EVER FEARED
was pointing at a pile of golden rubble on the other side of the hall,
where Bellatrix had lain trapped moments before. I saw him, Mr.
Fudge, I swear, it was YouKnowWho, he grabbed a woman and
Disapparated!
I know, Williamson, I know, I saw him too! gibbered Fudge, who
was wearing pajamas under his pinstriped cloak and was gasping as
though he had just run miles. Merlins beard  here  here!  in
the Ministry of Magic!  great heavens above  it doesnt seem pos
sible  my word  how can this be?
If you proceed downstairs into the Department of Mysteries, Cor
nelius, said Dumbledore, apparently satisfied that Harry was all
right, and walking forward so that the newcomers realized he was
there for the first time a few of them raised their wands, others sim
ply looked amazed the statues of the elf and goblin applauded and
Fudge jumped so much that his slipperclad feet left the floor, you
will find several escaped Death Eaters contained in the Death Cham
ber, bound by an AntiDisapparation Jinx and awaiting your decision
as to what to do with them.
Dumbledore! gasped Fudge, apparently beside himself with
amazement. You  here  I  I 
He looked wildly around at the Aurors he had brought with him,
and it could not have been clearer that he was in half a mind to cry,
Seize him!
Cornelius, I am ready to fight your men  and win again! said
Dumbledore in a thunderous voice. But a few minutes ago you saw
proof, with your own eyes, that I have been telling you the truth for a
year. Lord Voldemort has returned, you have been chasing the wrong
men for twelve months, and it is time you listened to sense!
I  dont  well  blustered Fudge, looking around as though
hoping somebody was going to tell him what to do. When nobody
did, he said, Very well  Dawlish! Williamson! Go down to the De
partment of Mysteries and see . . . Dumbledore, you  you will need


CHAPTER THIRTYSIX
to tell me exactly  the Fountain of Magical Brethren  what hap
pened? he added in a kind of whimper, staring around at the floor,
where the remains of the statues of the witch, wizard, and centaur
now lay scattered.
We can discuss that after I have sent Harry back to Hogwarts,
said Dumbledore.
Harry  Harry Potter?
Fudge spun around and stared at Harry, who was still standing
against the wall beside the fallen statue that had been guarding him
during Dumbledore and Voldemorts duel.
Hehere? said Fudge. Why  whats all this about?
I shall explain everything, repeated Dumbledore, when Harry is
back at school.
He walked away from the pool to the place where the golden wiz
ards head lay on the floor. He pointed his wand at it and muttered,
Portus. The head glowed blue and trembled noisily against the
wooden floor for a few seconds, then became still once more.
Now see here, Dumbledore! said Fudge, as Dumbledore picked
up the head and walked back to Harry carrying it. You havent got
authorization for that Portkey! You cant do things like that right in
front of the Minister of Magic, you  you 
His voice faltered as Dumbledore surveyed him magisterially over
his halfmoon spectacles.
You will give the order to remove Dolores Umbridge from Hog
warts, said Dumbledore. You will tell your Aurors to stop searching
for my Care of Magical Creatures teacher so that he can return to
work. I will give you . . . Dumbledore pulled a watch with twelve
hands from his pocket and glanced at it, half an hour of my time
tonight, in which I think we shall be more than able to cover the im
portant points of what has happened here. After that, I shall need to
return to my school. If you need more help from me you are, of


THE ONLY ONE
HE EVER FEARED
course, more than welcome to contact me at Hogwarts. Letters ad
dressed to the headmaster will find me.
Fudge goggled worse than ever. His mouth was open and his round
face grew pinker under his rumpled gray hair.
I  you 
Dumbledore turned his back on him.
Take this Portkey, Harry.
He held out the golden head of the statue, and Harry placed his
hand upon it, past caring what he did next or where he went.
I shall see you in half an hour, said Dumbledore quietly. One
. . . two . . . three . . .
Harry felt the familiar sensation of a hook being jerked behind his
navel. The polished wooden floor was gone from beneath his feet the
Atrium, Fudge, and Dumbledore had all disappeared, and he was fly
ing forward in a whirlwind of color and sound. . . .


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y  S E V E N
THE LOST PROPHECY
H
arrys feet hit solid ground again his knees buckled a little
and the golden wizards head fell with a resounding clunk to
the floor. He looked around and saw that he had arrived in Dumble
dores office.
Everything seemed to have repaired itself during the headmasters
absence. The delicate silver instruments stood again upon the spindle
legged tables, puffing and whirring serenely. The portraits of the
headmasters and headmistresses were snoozing in their frames, heads
lolling back in armchairs or against the edge of their pictures. Harry
looked through the window. There was a cool line of pale green along
the horizon Dawn was approaching.
The silence and the stillness, broken only by the occasional grunt or
snuffle of a sleeping portrait, was unbearable to him. If his sur
roundings could have reflected the feelings inside him, the pictures
would have been screaming in pain. He walked around the quiet,
beautiful office, breathing quickly, trying not to think. But he had to
think. . . . There was no escape. . . .
It was his fault Sirius had died it was all his fault. If he, Harry, had


THE LOST PROPHECY
not been stupid enough to fall for Voldemorts trick, if he had not
been so convinced that what he had seen in his dream was real, if he
had only opened his mind to the possibility that Voldemort was, as
Hermione had said, banking on Harrys love of playing the hero . . .
It was unbearable, he would not think about it, he could not stand
it. . . . There was a terrible hollow inside him he did not want to feel
or examine, a dark hole where Sirius had been, where Sirius had van
ished. He did not want to have to be alone with that great, silent
space, he could not stand it 
A picture behind him gave a particularly loud grunting snore, and
a cool voice said, Ah . . . Harry Potter . . .
Phineas Nigellus gave a long yawn, stretching his arms as he
watched Harry with shrewd, narrow eyes.
And what brings you here in the early hours of the morning? said
Phineas. This office is supposed to be barred to all but the rightful
headmaster. Or has Dumbledore sent you here? Oh, dont tell me . . .
He gave another shuddering yawn. Another message for my worth
less greatgreatgrandson?
Harry could not speak. Phineas Nigellus did not know that Sirius
was dead, but Harry could not tell him. To say it aloud would be to
make it final, absolute, irretrievable.
A few more of the portraits had stirred now. Terror of being inter
rogated made Harry stride across the room and seize the doorknob.
It would not turn. He was shut in.
I hope this means, said the corpulent, rednosed wizard who
hung on the wall behind Dumbledores desk, that Dumbledore will
soon be back with us?
Harry turned. The wizard was eyeing him with great interest. Harry
nodded. He tugged again on the doorknob behind his back, but it
remained immovable.
Oh good, said the wizard. It has been very dull without him,
very dull indeed.


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
He settled himself on the thronelike chair on which he had been
painted and smiled benignly upon Harry.
Dumbledore thinks very highly of you, as I am sure you know, he
said comfortably. Oh yes. Holds you in great esteem.
The guilt filling the whole of Harrys chest like some monstrous,
weighty parasite now writhed and squirmed. Harry could not stand
this, he could not stand being Harry anymore. . . . He had never felt
more trapped inside his own head and body, never wished so intensely
that he could be somebody  anybody  else. . . .
The empty fireplace burst into emeraldgreen flame, making Harry
leap away from the door, staring at the man spinning inside the grate.
As Dumbledores tall form unfolded itself from the fire, the wizards
and witches on the surrounding walls jerked awake. Many of them
gave cries of welcome.
Thank you, said Dumbledore softly.
He did not look at Harry at first, but walked over to the perch be
side the door and withdrew, from an inside pocket of his robes, the
tiny, ugly, featherless Fawkes, whom he placed gently on the tray of
soft ashes beneath the golden post where the fullgrown Fawkes usu
ally stood.
Well, Harry, said Dumbledore, finally turning away from the
baby bird, you will be pleased to hear that none of your fellow stu
dents are going to suffer lasting damage from the nights events.
Harry tried to say Good, but no sound came out. It seemed to
him that Dumbledore was reminding him of the amount of damage
he had caused by his actions tonight, and although Dumbledore was
for once looking at him directly, and though his expression was kindly
rather than accusatory, Harry could not bear to meet his eyes.
Madam Pomfrey is patching everybody up now, said Dumble
dore. Nymphadora Tonks may need to spend a little time in St.
Mungos, but it seems that she will make a full recovery.


THE LOST PROPHECY
Harry contented himself with nodding at the carpet, which was
growing lighter as the sky outside grew paler. He was sure that all the
portraits around the room were listening eagerly to every word Dum
bledore spoke, wondering where Dumbledore and Harry had been
and why there had been injuries.
I know how you are feeling, Harry, said Dumbledore very
quietly.
No, you dont, said Harry, and his voice was suddenly loud and
strong. Whitehot anger leapt inside him. Dumbledore knew nothing
about his feelings.
You see, Dumbledore? said Phineas Nigellus slyly. Never try to
understand the students. They hate it. They would much rather be
tragically misunderstood, wallow in selfpity, stew in their own 
Thats enough, Phineas, said Dumbledore.
Harry turned his back on Dumbledore and stared determinedly
out of the opposite window. He could see the Quidditch stadium in
the distance. Sirius had appeared there once, disguised as the shaggy
black dog, so he could watch Harry play. . . . He had probably come
to see whether Harry was as good as James had been. . . . Harry had
never asked him. . . .
There is no shame in what you are feeling, Harry, said Dumble
dores voice. On the contrary . . . the fact that you can feel pain like
this is your greatest strength.
Harry felt the whitehot anger lick his insides, blazing in the terri
ble emptiness, filling him with the desire to hurt Dumbledore for his
calmness and his empty words.
My greatest strength, is it? said Harry, his voice shaking as he
stared out at the Quidditch stadium, no longer seeing it. You havent
got a clue. . . . You dont know . . .
What dont I know? asked Dumbledore calmly.
It was too much. Harry turned around, shaking with rage.


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
I dont want to talk about how I feel, all right?
Harry, suffering like this proves you are still a man! This pain is
part of being human 
THEN  I  DONT  WANT  TO  BE  HUMAN!
Harry roared, and he seized one of the delicate silver instruments from
the spindlelegged table beside him and flung it across the room. It
shattered into a hundred tiny pieces against the wall. Several of the
pictures let out yells of anger and fright, and the portrait of Armando
Dippet said, Really!
I DONT CARE! Harry yelled at them, snatching up a luna
scope and throwing it into the fireplace. IVE HAD ENOUGH,
IVE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I WANT IT TO END, I
DONT CARE ANYMORE 
He seized the table on which the silver instrument had stood and
threw that too. It broke apart on the floor and the legs rolled in dif
ferent directions.
You do care, said Dumbledore. He had not flinched or made a
single move to stop Harry demolishing his office. His expression was
calm, almost detached. You care so much you feel as though you will
bleed to death with the pain of it.
I  DONT! Harry screamed, so loudly that he felt his throat
might tear, and for a second he wanted to rush at Dumbledore and
break him too shatter that calm old face, shake him, hurt him, make
him feel some tiny part of the horror inside Harry.
Oh yes, you do, said Dumbledore, still more calmly. You have
now lost your mother, your father, and the closest thing to a parent
you have ever known. Of course you care.
YOU DONT KNOW HOW I FEEL! Harry roared. YOU 
STANDING THERE  YOU 
But words were no longer enough, smashing things was no more
help. He wanted to run, he wanted to keep running and never look
back, he wanted to be somewhere he could not see the clear blue eyes


THE LOST PROPHECY
staring at him, that hatefully calm old face. He ran to the door, seized
the doorknob again, and wrenched at it.
But the door would not open.
Harry turned back to Dumbledore.
Let me out, he said. He was shaking from head to foot.
No, said Dumbledore simply.
For a few seconds they stared at each other.
Let me out, Harry said again.
No, Dumbledore repeated.
If you dont  if you keep me in here  if you dont let me 
By all means continue destroying my possessions, said Dumble
dore serenely. I daresay I have too many.
He walked around his desk and sat down behind it, watching
Harry.
Let me out, Harry said yet again, in a voice that was cold and al
most as calm as Dumbledores.
Not until I have had my say, said Dumbledore.
Do you  do you think I want to  do you think I give a  I
DONT CARE WHAT YOUVE GOT TO SAY! Harry roared. I
dont want to hear anything youve got to say!
You will, said Dumbledore sadly. Because you are not nearly as
angry with me as you ought to be. If you are to attack me, as I know
you are close to doing, I would like to have thoroughly earned it.
What are you talking  ?
It is my fault that Sirius died, said Dumbledore clearly. Or I
should say almost entirely my fault  I will not be so arrogant as to
claim responsibility for the whole. Sirius was a brave, clever, and ener
getic man, and such men are not usually content to sit at home in hid
ing while they believe others to be in danger. Nevertheless, you should
never have believed for an instant that there was any necessity for you
to go to the Department of Mysteries tonight. If I had been open with
you, Harry, as I should have been, you would have known a long time


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
ago that Voldemort might try and lure you to the Department of
Mysteries, and you would never have been tricked into going there
tonight. And Sirius would not have had to come after you. That
blame lies with me, and with me alone.
Harry was still standing with his hand on the doorknob but he was
unaware of it. He was gazing at Dumbledore, hardly breathing, lis
tening yet barely understanding what he was hearing.
Please sit down, said Dumbledore. It was not an order, it was a
request.
Harry hesitated, then walked slowly across the room now littered
with silver cogs and fragments of wood and took the seat facing Dum
bledores desk.
Am I to understand, said Phineas Nigellus slowly from Harrys
left, that my greatgreatgrandson  the last of the Blacks  is
dead?
Yes, Phineas, said Dumbledore.
I dont believe it, said Phineas brusquely.
Harry turned his head in time to see Phineas marching out of his
portrait and knew that he had gone to visit his other painting in
Grimmauld Place. He would walk, perhaps, from portrait to portrait,
calling for Sirius through the house. . . .
Harry, I owe you an explanation, said Dumbledore. An explana
tion of an old mans mistakes. For I see now that what I have done,
and not done, with regard to you, bears all the hallmarks of the fail
ings of age. Youth cannot know how age thinks and feels. But old men
are guilty if they forget what it was to be young . . . and I seem to have
forgotten lately. . . .
The sun was rising properly now. There was a rim of dazzling or
ange visible over the mountains and the sky above it was colorless and
bright. The light fell upon Dumbledore, upon the silver of his eye
brows and beard, upon the lines gouged deeply into his face.
I guessed, fifteen years ago, said Dumbledore, when I saw the


THE LOST PROPHECY
scar upon your forehead, what it might mean. I guessed that it might
be the sign of a connection forged between you and Voldemort.
Youve told me this before, Professor, said Harry bluntly. He did
not care about being rude. He did not care about anything very much
anymore.
Yes, said Dumbledore apologetically. Yes, but you see  it is
necessary to start with your scar. For it became apparent, shortly after
you rejoined the magical world, that I was correct, and that your scar
was giving you warnings when Voldemort was close to you, or else
feeling powerful emotion.
I know, said Harry wearily.
And this ability of yours  to detect Voldemorts presence, even
when he is disguised, and to know what he is feeling when his emo
tions are roused  has become more and more pronounced since
Voldemort returned to his own body and his full powers.
Harry did not bother to nod. He knew all of this already.
More recently, said Dumbledore, I became concerned that
Voldemort might realize that this connection between you exists. Sure
enough, there came a time when you entered so far into his mind and
thoughts that he sensed your presence. I am speaking, of course, of the
night when you witnessed the attack on Mr. Weasley.
Yeah, Snape told me, Harry muttered.
Professor Snape, Harry, Dumbledore corrected him quietly. But
did you not wonder why it was not I who explained this to you? Why
I did not teach you Occlumency? Why I had not so much as looked
at you for months?
Harry looked up. He could see now that Dumbledore looked sad
and tired.
Yeah, Harry mumbled. Yeah, I wondered.
You see, continued Dumbledore heavily I believed it could not
be long before Voldemort attempted to force his way into your mind,
to manipulate and misdirect your thoughts, and I was not eager to


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
give him more incentives to do so. I was sure that if he realized that
our relationship was  or had ever been  closer than that of head
master and pupil, he would seize his chance to use you as a means to
spy on me. I feared the uses to which he would put you, the possibil
ity that he might try and possess you. Harry, I believe I was right to
think that Voldemort would have made use of you in such a way. On
those rare occasions when we had close contact, I thought I saw a
shadow of him stir behind your eyes. . . . I was trying, in distancing
myself from you, to protect you. An old mans mistake . . .
Harry remembered the feeling that a dormant snake had risen in
him, ready to strike, on those occasions when he and Dumbledore
made eye contact.
Voldemorts aim in possessing you, as he demonstrated tonight,
would not have been my destruction. It would have been yours. He
hoped, when he possessed you briefly a short while ago, that I would
sacrifice you in the hope of killing him.
He sighed deeply. Harry was letting the words wash over him. He
would have been so interested to know all this a few months ago, and
now it was meaningless compared to the gaping chasm inside him that
was the loss of Sirius, none of it mattered . . .
Sirius told me that you felt Voldemort awake inside you the very
night that you had the vision of Arthur Weasleys attack. I knew at
once that my worst fears were correct Voldemort from that point had
realized he could use you. In an attempt to arm you against Volde
morts assaults on your mind, I arranged Occlumency lessons with
Professor Snape.
He paused. Harry watched the sunlight, which was sliding slowly
across the polished surface of Dumbledores desk, illuminate a silver
ink pot and a handsome scarlet quill. Harry could tell that the por
traits all around them were awake and listening raptly to Dumble
dores explanation. He could hear the occasional rustle of robes, the
slight clearing of a throat. Phineas Nigellus had still not returned. . . .


THE LOST PROPHECY
Professor Snape discovered, Dumbledore resumed, that you had
been dreaming about the door to the Department of Mysteries for
months. Voldemort, of course, had been obsessed with the possibility of
hearing the prophecy ever since he regained his body, and as he dwelled
on the door, so did you, though you did not know what it meant.
And then you saw Rookwood, who worked in the Department of
Mysteries before his arrest, telling Voldemort what we had known all
along  that the prophecies held in the Ministry of Magic are heavily
protected. Only the people to whom they refer can lift them from the
shelves without suffering madness. In this case, either Voldemort him
self would have to enter the Ministry of Magic and risk revealing
himself at last  or else you would have to take it for him. It became
a matter of even greater urgency that you should master Occlumency.
But I didnt, muttered Harry. He said it aloud to try and ease the
dead weight of guilt inside him a confession must surely relieve some
of the terrible pressure squeezing his heart. I didnt practice, I didnt
bother, I couldve stopped myself having those dreams, Hermione
kept telling me to do it, if I had hed never have been able to show me
where to go, and  Sirius wouldnt  Sirius wouldnt 
Something was erupting inside Harrys head a need to justify him
self, to explain 
I tried to check hed really taken Sirius, I went to Umbridges of
fice, I spoke to Kreacher in the fire, and he said Sirius wasnt there, he
said hed gone!
Kreacher lied, said Dumbledore calmly. You are not his master,
he could lie to you without even needing to punish himself. Kreacher
intended you to go to the Ministry of Magic.
He  he sent me on purpose?
Oh yes. Kreacher, I am afraid, has been serving more than one
master for months.
How? said Harry blankly. He hasnt been out of Grimmauld
Place for years.


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
Kreacher seized his opportunity shortly before Christmas, said
Dumbledore, when Sirius, apparently, shouted at him to get out.
He took Sirius at his word and interpreted this as an order to leave the
house. He went to the only Black family member for whom he had
any respect left. . . . Blacks cousin Narcissa, sister of Bellatrix and wife
of Lucius Malfoy.
How do you know all this? Harry said. His heart was beating very
fast. He felt sick. He remembered worrying about Kreachers odd
absence over Christmas, remembered him turning up again in the
attic. . . .
Kreacher told me last night, said Dumbledore. You see, when
you gave Professor Snape that cryptic warning, he realized that you
had had a vision of Sirius trapped in the bowels of the Department of
Mysteries. He, like you, attempted to contact Sirius at once. I should
explain that members of the Order of the Phoenix have more reliable
methods of communicating than the fire in Dolores Umbridges of
fice. Professor Snape found that Sirius was alive and safe in Grim
mauld Place.
When, however, you did not return from your trip into the forest
with Dolores Umbridge, Professor Snape grew worried that you still
believed Sirius to be a captive of Lord Voldemorts. He alerted certain
Order members at once.
Dumbledore heaved a great sigh and then said, Alastor Moody,
Nymphadora Tonks, Kingsley Shacklebolt, and Remus Lupin were at
headquarters when he made contact. All agreed to go to your aid at
once. Professor Snape requested that Sirius remain behind, as he
needed somebody to remain at headquarters to tell me what had hap
pened, for I was due there at any moment. In the meantime he, Pro
fessor Snape, intended to search the forest for you.
But Sirius did not wish to remain behind while the others went to
search for you. He delegated to Kreacher the task of telling me what
had happened. And so it was that when I arrived in Grimmauld Place


THE LOST PROPHECY
shortly after they had all left for the Ministry, it was the elf who told
me  laughing fit to burst  where Sirius had gone.
He was laughing? said Harry in a hollow voice.
Oh yes, said Dumbledore. You see, Kreacher was not able to be
tray us totally. He is not SecretKeeper for the Order, he could not
give the Malfoys our whereabouts or tell them any of the Orders con
fidential plans that he had been forbidden to reveal. He was bound by
the enchantments of his kind, which is to say that he could not dis
obey a direct order from his master, Sirius. But he gave Narcissa
information of the sort that is very valuable to Voldemort, yet must
have seemed much too trivial for Sirius to think of banning him from
repeating it.
Like what? said Harry.
Like the fact that the person Sirius cared most about in the world
was you, said Dumbledore quietly. Like the fact that you were com
ing to regard Sirius as a mixture of father and brother. Voldemort
knew already, of course, that Sirius was in the Order, that you knew
where he was  but Kreachers information made him realize that the
one person whom you would go to any lengths to rescue was Sirius
Black.
Harrys lips were cold and numb.
So . . . when I asked Kreacher if Sirius was there last night . . .
The Malfoys  undoubtedly on Voldemorts instructions  had
told him he must find a way of keeping Sirius out of the way once you
had seen the vision of Sirius being tortured. Then, if you decided to
check whether Sirius was at home or not, Kreacher would be able to
pretend he was not. Kreacher injured Buckbeak the hippogriff yester
day, and at the moment when you made your appearance in the fire,
Sirius was upstairs trying to tend to him.
There seemed to be very little air in Harrys lungs, his breathing was
quick and shallow.
And Kreacher told you all this . . . and laughed? he croaked.


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
He did not wish to tell me, said Dumbledore. But I am a suffi
ciently accomplished Legilimens myself to know when I am being lied
to and I  persuaded him  to tell me the full story, before I left for
the Department of Mysteries.
And, whispered Harry, his hands curled in cold fists on his knees,
and Hermione kept telling us to be nice to him 
She was quite right, Harry, said Dumbledore. I warned Sirius
when we adopted twelve Grimmauld Place as our headquarters that
Kreacher must be treated with kindness and respect. I also told him
that Kreacher could be dangerous to us. I do not think that Sirius
took me very seriously, or that he ever saw Kreacher as a being with
feelings as acute as a humans 
Dont you blame  dont you  talk  about Sirius like 
Harrys breath was constricted, he could not get the words out prop
erly. But the rage that had subsided so briefly had flared in him again
he would not let Dumbledore criticize Sirius. Kreachers a lying 
foul  he deserved 
Kreacher is what he has been made by wizards, Harry, said Dum
bledore. Yes, he is to be pitied. His existence has been as miserable as
your friend Dobbys. He was forced to do Siriuss bidding, because Sir
ius was the last of the family to which he was enslaved, but he felt no
true loyalty to him. And whatever Kreachers faults, it must be admit
ted that Sirius did nothing to make Kreachers lot easier 
DONT TALK ABOUT SIRIUS LIKE THAT! Harry yelled.
He was on his feet again, furious, ready to fly at Dumbledore, who
had plainly not understood Sirius at all, how brave he was, how much
he had suffered . . .
What about Snape? Harry spat. Youre not talking about him,
are you? When I told him Voldemort had Sirius he just sneered at me
as usual 
Harry, you know that Professor Snape had no choice but to pre
tend not to take you seriously in front of Dolores Umbridge, said


THE LOST PROPHECY
Dumbledore steadily, but as I have explained, he informed the Order
as soon as possible about what you had said. It was he who deduced
where you had gone when you did not return from the forest. It was
he too who gave Professor Umbridge fake Veritaserum when she was
attempting to force you to tell of Siriuss whereabouts. . . .
Harry disregarded this he felt a savage pleasure in blaming Snape,
it seemed to be easing his own sense of dreadful guilt, and he wanted
to hear Dumbledore agree with him.
Snape  Snape ggoaded Sirius about staying in the house  he
made out Sirius was a coward 
Sirius was much too old and clever to have allowed such feeble
taunts to hurt him, said Dumbledore.
Snape stopped giving me Occlumency lessons! Harry snarled.
He threw me out of his office!
I am aware of it, said Dumbledore heavily. I have already said
that it was a mistake for me not to teach you myself, though I was
sure, at the time, that nothing could have been more dangerous than
to open your mind even further to Voldemort while in my
presence 
Snape made it worse, my scar always hurt worse after lessons with
him  Harry remembered Rons thoughts on the subject and
plunged on. How do you know he wasnt trying to soften me up for
Voldemort, make it easier for him to get inside my 
I trust Severus Snape, said Dumbledore simply. But I forgot 
another old mans mistake  that some wounds run too deep for the
healing. I thought Professor Snape could overcome his feelings about
your father  I was wrong.
But thats okay, is it? yelled Harry, ignoring the scandalized faces
and disapproving mutterings of the portraits covering the walls. Its
okay for Snape to hate my dad, but its not okay for Sirius to hate
Kreacher?
Sirius did not hate Kreacher, said Dumbledore. He regarded


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
him as a servant unworthy of much interest or notice. Indifference
and neglect often do much more damage than outright dislike. . . .
The fountain we destroyed tonight told a lie. We wizards have mis
treated and abused our fellows for too long, and we are now reaping
our reward.
SO SIRIUS DESERVED WHAT HE GOT, DID HE? Harry
yelled.
I did not say that, nor will you ever hear me say it, Dumbledore
replied quietly. Sirius was not a cruel man, he was kind to houseelves
in general. He had no love for Kreacher, because Kreacher was a living
reminder of the home Sirius had hated.
Yeah, he did hate it! said Harry, his voice cracking, turning his
back on Dumbledore and walking away. The sun was bright inside the
room now, and the eyes of all the portraits followed him as he walked,
without realizing what he was doing, without seeing the office at all.
You made him stay shut up in that house and he hated it, thats why
he wanted to get out last night 
I was trying to keep Sirius alive, said Dumbledore quietly.
People dont like being locked up! Harry said furiously, rounding
on him. You did it to me all last summer 
Dumbledore closed his eyes and buried his face in his longfingered
hands. Harry watched him, but this uncharacteristic sign of exhaus
tion, or sadness, or whatever it was from Dumbledore, did not soften
him. On the contrary, he felt even angrier that Dumbledore was
showing signs of weakness. He had no business being weak when
Harry wanted to rage and storm at him.
Dumbledore lowered his hands and surveyed Harry through his
halfmoon glasses.
It is time, he said, for me to tell you what I should have told you
five years ago, Harry. Please sit down. I am going to tell you every
thing. I ask only a little patience. You will have your chance to rage at


THE LOST PROPHECY
me  to do whatever you like  when I have finished. I will not stop
you.
Harry glared at him for a moment, then flung himself back into the
chair opposite Dumbledore and waited. Dumbledore stared for a mo
ment at the sunlit grounds outside the window, then looked back at
Harry and said, Five years ago you arrived at Hogwarts, Harry, safe
and whole, as I had planned and intended. Well  not quite whole.
You had suffered. I knew you would when I left you on your aunt and
uncles doorstep. I knew I was condemning you to ten dark and diffi
cult years.
He paused. Harry said nothing.
You might ask  and with good reason  why it had to be so.
Why could some Wizarding family not have taken you in? Many
would have done so more than gladly, would have been honored and
delighted to raise you as a son.
My answer is that my priority was to keep you alive. You were in
more danger than perhaps anyone but myself realized. Voldemort had
been vanquished hours before, but his supporters  and many of
them are almost as terrible as he  were still at large, angry, desper
ate, and violent. And I had to make my decision too with regard to the
years ahead. Did I believe that Voldemort was gone forever? No. I
knew not whether it would be ten, twenty, or fifty years before he re
turned, but I was sure he would do so, and I was sure too, knowing
him as I have done, that he would not rest until he killed you.
I knew that Voldemorts knowledge of magic is perhaps more ex
tensive than any wizard alive. I knew that even my most complex and
powerful protective spells and charms were unlikely to be invincible if
he ever returned to full power.
But I knew too where Voldemort was weak. And so I made my
decision. You would be protected by an ancient magic of which
he knows, which he despises, and which he has always, therefore,


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
underestimated  to his cost. I am speaking, of course, of the fact
that your mother died to save you. She gave you a lingering protection
he never expected, a protection that flows in your veins to this day. I
put my trust, therefore, in your mothers blood. I delivered you to her
sister, her only remaining relative.
She doesnt love me, said Harry at once. She doesnt give a
damn 
But she took you, Dumbledore cut across him. She may have
taken you grudgingly, furiously, unwillingly, bitterly, yet still she took
you, and in doing so, she sealed the charm I placed upon you. Your
mothers sacrifice made the bond of blood the strongest shield I could
give you.
I still dont 
While you can still call home the place where your mothers blood
dwells, there you cannot be touched or harmed by Voldemort. He
shed her blood, but it lives on in you and her sister. Her blood became
your refuge. You need return there only once a year, but as long as you
can still call it home, there he cannot hurt you. Your aunt knows this.
I explained what I had done in the letter I left, with you, on her
doorstep. She knows that allowing you houseroom may well have kept
you alive for the past fifteen years.
Wait, said Harry. Wait a moment.
He sat up straighter in his chair, staring at Dumbledore.
You sent that Howler. You told her to remember  it was your
voice 
I thought, said Dumbledore, inclining his head slightly, that she
might need reminding of the pact she had sealed by taking you. I sus
pected the dementor attack might have awoken her to the dangers of
having you as a surrogate son.
It did, said Harry quietly. Well  my uncle more than her. He
wanted to chuck me out, but after the Howler came she  she said I


THE LOST PROPHECY
had to stay. He stared at the floor for a moment, then said, But
whats this got to do with . . .
He could not say Siriuss name.
Five years ago, then, continued Dumbledore, as though he had
not paused in his story, you arrived at Hogwarts, neither as happy
nor as well nourished as I would have liked, perhaps, yet alive and
healthy. You were not a pampered little prince, but as normal a boy as
I could have hoped under the circumstances. Thus far, my plan was
working well.
And then . . . well, you will remember the events of your first year
at Hogwarts quite as clearly as I do. You rose magnificently to the
challenge that faced you, and sooner  much sooner  than I had
anticipated, you found yourself facetoface with Voldemort. You sur
vived again. You did more. You delayed his return to full power and
strength. You fought a mans fight. I was . . . prouder of you than I can
say.
Yet there was a flaw in this wonderful plan of mine, said Dumb
ledore. An obvious flaw that I knew, even then, might be the undo
ing of it all. And yet, knowing how important it was that my plan
should succeed, I told myself that I would not permit this flaw to ruin
it. I alone could prevent this, so I alone must be strong. And here was
my first test, as you lay in the hospital wing, weak from your struggle
with Voldemort.
I dont understand what youre saying, said Harry.
Dont you remember asking me, as you lay in the hospital wing,
why Voldemort had tried to kill you when you were a baby?
Harry nodded.
Ought I to have told you then?
Harry stared into the blue eyes and said nothing, but his heart was
racing again.
You do not see the flaw in the plan yet? No . . . perhaps not. Well,


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
as you know, I decided not to answer you. Eleven, I told myself,
was much too young to know. I had never intended to tell you when
you were eleven. The knowledge would be too much at such a young
age.
I should have recognized the danger signs then. I should have
asked myself why I did not feel more disturbed that you had already
asked me the question to which I knew, one day, I must give a terrible
answer. I should have recognized that I was too happy to think that I
did not have to do it on that particular day. . . . You were too young,
much too young.
And so we entered your second year at Hogwarts. And once again
you met challenges even grown wizards have never faced. Once again
you acquitted yourself beyond my wildest dreams. You did not ask me
again, however, why Voldemort had left that mark upon you. We dis
cussed your scar, oh yes. . . . We came very, very close to the subject.
Why did I not tell you everything?
Well, it seemed to me that twelve was, after all, hardly better than
eleven to receive such information. I allowed you to leave my pres
ence, bloodstained, exhausted but exhilarated, and if I felt a twinge of
unease that I ought, perhaps, have told you then, it was swiftly si
lenced. You were still so young, you see, and I could not find it in me
to spoil that night of triumph. . . .
Do you see, Harry? Do you see the flaw in my brilliant plan now?
I had fallen into the trap I had foreseen, that I had told myself I could
avoid, that I must avoid.
I dont 
I cared about you too much, said Dumbledore simply. I cared
more for your happiness than your knowing the truth, more for your
peace of mind than my plan, more for your life than the lives that
might be lost if the plan failed. In other words, I acted exactly as
Voldemort expects we fools who love to act.
Is there a defense? I defy anyone who has watched you as I have 


THE LOST PROPHECY
and I have watched you more closely than you can have imagined 
not to want to save you more pain than you had already suffered.
What did I care if numbers of nameless and faceless people and crea
tures were slaughtered in the vague future, if in the here and now you
were alive, and well, and happy? I never dreamed that I would have
such a person on my hands.
We entered your third year. I watched from afar as you struggled
to repel dementors, as you found Sirius, learned what he was and res
cued him. Was I to tell you then, at the moment when you had tri
umphantly snatched your godfather from the jaws of the Ministry?
But now, at the age of thirteen, my excuses were running out. Young
you might be, but you had proved you were exceptional. My con
science was uneasy, Harry. I knew the time must come soon. . . .
But you came out of the maze last year, having watched Cedric
Diggory die, having escaped death so narrowly yourself . . . and I did
not tell you, though I knew, now Voldemort had returned, I must do
it soon. And now, tonight, I know you have long been ready for the
knowledge I have kept from you for so long, because you have proved
that I should have placed the burden upon you before this. My only
defense is this I have watched you struggling under more burdens
than any student who has ever passed through this school, and I could
not bring myself to add another  the greatest one of all.
Harry waited, but Dumbledore did not speak.
I still dont understand.
Voldemort tried to kill you when you were a child because of a
prophecy made shortly before your birth. He knew the prophecy had
been made, though he did not know its full contents. He set out to
kill you when you were still a baby, believing he was fulfilling the
terms of the prophecy. He discovered, to his cost, that he was mis
taken, when the curse intended to kill you backfired. And so, since his
return to his body, and particularly since your extraordinary escape
from him last year, he has been determined to hear that prophecy in


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
its entirety. This is the weapon he has been seeking so assiduously
since his return the knowledge of how to destroy you.
The sun had risen fully now. Dumbledores office was bathed in it.
The glass case in which the sword of Godric Gryffindor resided
gleamed white and opaque, the fragments of the instruments Harry
had thrown to the floor glistened like raindrops, and behind him, the
baby Fawkes made soft chirruping noises in his nest of ashes.
The prophecys smashed, Harry said blankly. I was pulling
Neville up those benches in the  the room where the archway was,
and I ripped his robes and it fell. . . .
The thing that smashed was merely the record of the prophecy
kept by the Department of Mysteries. But the prophecy was made to
somebody, and that person has the means of recalling it perfectly.
Who heard it? asked Harry, though he thought he knew the an
swer already.
I did, said Dumbledore. On a cold, wet night sixteen years ago,
in a room above the bar at the Hogs Head Inn. I had gone there to see
an applicant for the post of Divination teacher, though it was against
my inclination to allow the subject of Divination to continue at all.
The applicant, however, was the greatgreatgranddaughter of a very
famous, very gifted Seer, and I thought it common politeness to meet
her. I was disappointed. It seemed to me that she had not a trace of the
gift herself. I told her, courteously I hope, that I did not think she
would be suitable for the post. I turned to leave.
Dumbledore got to his feet and walked past Harry to the black cab
inet that stood beside Fawkess perch. He bent down, slid back a
catch, and took from inside it the shallow stone basin, carved with
runes around the edges, in which Harry had seen his father torment
ing Snape. Dumbledore walked back to the desk, placed the Pensieve
upon it, and raised his wand to his own temple. From it, he withdrew
silvery, gossamerfine strands of thought clinging to the wand, and
deposited them in the basin. He sat back down behind his desk and


THE LOST PROPHECY
watched his thoughts swirl and drift inside the Pensieve for a moment.
Then, with a sigh, he raised his wand and prodded the silvery sub
stance with its tip.
A figure rose out of it, draped in shawls, her eyes magnified to enor
mous size behind her glasses, and she revolved slowly, her feet in the
basin. But when Sibyll Trelawney spoke, it was not in her usual ethe
real, mystic voice, but in the harsh, hoarse tones Harry had heard her
use once before.
T HE ONE WITH THE POWER TO VANQUISH THE D ARK L ORD AP 
PROACHES . . . . B ORN TO THOSE WHO HAVE THRICE DEFIED HIM , BORN
AS THE SEVENTH MONTH DIES . . . AND THE D ARK L ORD WILL MARK
HIM AS HIS EQUAL , BUT HE WILL HAVE POWER THE D ARK L ORD KNOWS
NOT . . . AND EITHER MUST DIE AT THE HAND OF THE OTHER FOR NEI 
THER CAN LIVE WHILE THE OTHER SURVIVES . . . . T HE ONE WITH THE
POWER TO VANQUISH THE D ARK L ORD WILL BE BORN AS THE SEVENTH
MONTH DIES . . . .
The slowly revolving Professor Trelawney sank back into the silver
mass below and vanished.
The silence within the office was absolute. Neither Dumbledore
nor Harry nor any of the portraits made a sound. Even Fawkes had
fallen silent.
Professor Dumbledore? Harry said very quietly, for Dumbledore,
still staring at the Pensieve, seemed completely lost in thought. It . . .
did that mean . . . What did that mean?
It meant, said Dumbledore, that the person who has the only
chance of conquering Lord Voldemort for good was born at the end
of July, nearly sixteen years ago. This boy would be born to parents
who had already defied Voldemort three times.
Harry felt as though something was closing in upon him. His
breathing seemed difficult again.
It means  me?
Dumbledore surveyed him for a moment through his glasses.


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
The odd thing is, Harry, he said softly, that it may not have
meant you at all. Sibylls prophecy could have applied to two wizard
boys, both born at the end of July that year, both of whom had par
ents in the Order of the Phoenix, both sets of parents having narrowly
escaped Voldemort three times. One, of course, was you. The other
was Neville Longbottom.
But then . . . but then, why was it my name on the prophecy and
not Nevilles?
The official record was relabeled after Voldemorts attack on you
as a child, said Dumbledore. It seemed plain to the keeper of the
Hall of Prophecy that Voldemort could only have tried to kill you be
cause he knew you to be the one to whom Sibyll was referring.
Then  it might not be me? said Harry.
I am afraid, said Dumbledore slowly, looking as though every
word cost him a great effort, that there is no doubt that it is you.
But you said  Neville was born at the end of July too  and his
mum and dad 
You are forgetting the next part of the prophecy, the final identi
fying feature of the boy who could vanquish Voldemort. . . . Volde
mort himself would mark him as his equal. And so he did, Harry. He
chose you, not Neville. He gave you the scar that has proved both
blessing and curse.
But he might have chosen wrong! said Harry. He might have
marked the wrong person!
He chose the boy he thought most likely to be a danger to him,
said Dumbledore. And notice this, Harry. He chose, not the pureblood
which, according to his creed, is the only kind of wizard worth being
or knowing, but the halfblood, like himself. He saw himself in you be
fore he had ever seen you, and in marking you with that scar, he did not
kill you, as he intended, but gave you powers, and a future, which have
fitted you to escape him not once, but four times so far  something
that neither your parents, nor Nevilles parents, ever achieved.


THE LOST PROPHECY
Why did he do it, then? said Harry, who felt numb and cold.
Why did he try and kill me as a baby? He should have waited to see
whether Neville or I looked more dangerous when we were older and
tried to kill whoever it was then 
That might, indeed, have been the more practical course, said
Dumbledore, except that Voldemorts information about the
prophecy was incomplete. The Hogs Head Inn, which Sibyll chose
for its cheapness, has long attracted, shall we say, a more interesting
clientele than the Three Broomsticks. As you and your friends found
out to your cost, and I to mine that night, it is a place where it is never
safe to assume you are not being overheard. Of course, I had not
dreamed, when I set out to meet Sibyll Trelawney, that I would hear
anything worth overhearing. My  our  one stroke of good for
tune was that the eavesdropper was detected only a short way into the
prophecy and thrown from the building.
So he only heard . . . ?
He heard only the first part, the part foretelling the birth of a boy
in July to parents who had thrice defied Voldemort. Consequently, he
could not warn his master that to attack you would be to risk trans
ferring power to you  again marking you as his equal. So Voldemort
never knew that there might be danger in attacking you, that it might
be wise to wait or to learn more. He did not know that you would
have power the Dark Lord knows not 
But I dont! said Harry in a strangled voice. I havent any powers
he hasnt got, I couldnt fight the way he did tonight, I cant possess
people or  or kill them 
There is a room in the Department of Mysteries, interrupted
Dumbledore, that is kept locked at all times. It contains a force that
is at once more wonderful and more terrible than death, than human
intelligence, than forces of nature. It is also, perhaps, the most myste
rious of the many subjects for study that reside there. It is the power
held within that room that you possess in such quantities and which


CHAPTER THIRTYSEVEN
Voldemort has not at all. That power took you to save Sirius tonight.
That power also saved you from possession by Voldemort, because he
could not bear to reside in a body so full of the force he detests. In the
end, it mattered not that you could not close your mind. It was your
heart that saved you.
Harry closed his eyes. If he had not gone to save Sirius, Sirius
would not have died. . . . More to stave off the moment when he
would have to think of Sirius again, Harry asked, without caring
much about the answer, The end of the prophecy . . . it was some
thing about . . . neither can live. . . . 
 . . . while the other survives,  said Dumbledore.
So, said Harry, dredging up the words from what felt like a deep
well of despair inside him, so does that mean that . . . that one of us
has got to kill the other one . . . in the end?
Yes, said Dumbledore.
For a long time, neither of them spoke. Somewhere far beyond the
office walls, Harry could hear the sound of voices, students heading
down to the Great Hall for an early breakfast, perhaps. It seemed im
possible that there could be people in the world who still desired food,
who laughed, who neither knew nor cared that Sirius Black was gone
forever. Sirius seemed a million miles away already, even if a part of
Harry still believed that if he had only pulled back that veil, he would
have found Sirius looking back at him, greeting him, perhaps, with
his laugh like a bark. . . .
I feel I owe you another explanation, Harry, said Dumbledore
hesitantly. You may, perhaps, have wondered why I never chose you
as a prefect? I must confess . . . that I rather thought . . . you had
enough responsibility to be going on with.
Harry looked up at him and saw a tear trickling down Dumble
dores face into his long silver beard.


C H A P T E R T H I R T Y  E I G H T
THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
HEWHOMUSTNOTBENAMED RETURNS
In a brief statement Friday night, Minister of Magic
Cornelius Fudge confirmed that HeWhoMust
NotBe Named has returned to this country and is
active once more.
It is with great regret that I must confirm that the
wizard styling himself Lord  well, you know who I
mean  is alive and among us again, said Fudge,
looking tired and flustered as he addressed reporters.
It is with almost equal regret that we report the mass
revolt of the dementors of Azkaban, who have shown
themselves averse to continuing in the Ministrys em
ploy. We believe that the dementors are currently tak
ing direction from Lord  Thingy.
We urge the magical population to remain vigi
lant. The Ministry is currently publishing guides to
elementary home and personal defense that will be


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
delivered free to all Wizarding homes within the
coming month.
The Ministers statement was met with dismay and
alarm from the Wizarding community, which as re
cently as last Wednesday was receiving Ministry as
surances that there was no truth whatsoever in these
persistent rumors that YouKnowWho is operating
amongst us once more.
Details of the events that led to the Ministry turn
around are still hazy, though it is believed that He
WhoMustNotBeNamed and a select band of
followers known as Death Eaters gained entry to
the Ministry of Magic itself on Thursday evening.
Albus Dumbledore, newly reinstated headmaster
of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, re
instated member of the International Confederation
of Wizards, and reinstated Chief Warlock of the Wiz
engamot, was unavailable for comment last night. He
has insisted for a year that YouKnowWho was not
dead, as was widely hoped and believed, but recruit
ing followers once more for a fresh attempt to seize
power. Meanwhile the Boy Who Lived 
There you are, Harry, I knew theyd drag you into it somehow,
said Hermione, looking over the top of the paper at him.
They were in the hospital wing. Harry was sitting on the end of
Rons bed and they were both listening to Hermione read the front
page of the Sunday Prophet. Ginny, whose ankle had been mended in
a trice by Madam Pomfrey, was curled up at the foot of Hermiones
bed Neville, whose nose had likewise been returned to its normal size
and shape, was in a chair between the two beds and Luna, who had
dropped in to visit clutching the latest edition of The Quibbler, was


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
reading the magazine upside down and apparently not taking in a
word Hermione was saying.
Hes the Boy Who Lived again now, though, isnt he? said Ron
darkly. Not such a showoff maniac anymore, eh?
He helped himself to a handful of Chocolate Frogs from the im
mense pile on his bedside cabinet, threw a few to Harry, Ginny, and
Neville, and ripped off the wrapper of his own with his teeth. There
were still deep welts on his forearms where the brains tentacles had
wrapped around him. According to Madam Pomfrey, thoughts could
leave deeper scarring than almost anything else, though since she had
started applying copious amounts of Dr. Ubblys Oblivious Unc
tion, there seemed to be some improvement.
Yes, theyre very complimentary about you now, Harry, said
Hermione, now scanning down the article.   A lone voice of truth . . .
perceived as unbalanced, yet never wavered in his story . . . forced to bear
ridicule and slander . . . Hmmm, said Hermione, frowning, I notice
they dont mention the fact that it was them doing all the ridiculing
and slandering, though. . . .
She winced slightly and put a hand to her ribs. The curse Dolohov
had used on her, though less effective than it would have been had he
been able to say the incantation aloud, had nevertheless caused, in
Madam Pomfreys words, quite enough damage to be going on with.
Hermione was having to take ten different types of potion every day
and although she was improving greatly, was already bored with the
hospital wing.
  YouKnowWhos Last Attempt to Take Over, pages two to four, What
the Ministry Should Have Told Us, page five, Why Nobody Listened to Al
bus Dumbledore, pages six to eight, Exclusive Interview with Harry Pot
ter, page nine . . . Well, said Hermione, folding up the newspaper
and throwing it aside, its certainly given them lots to write about.
And that interview with Harry isnt exclusive, its the one that was in
The Quibbler months ago. . . .


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
Daddy sold it to them, said Luna vaguely, turning a page of The
Quibbler. He got a very good price for it too, so were going to go on
an expedition to Sweden this summer and see if we can catch a
CrumpleHorned Snorkack.
Hermione seemed to struggle with herself for a moment, then said,
That sounds lovely.
Ginny caught Harrys eye and looked away quickly, grinning.
So anyway, said Hermione, sitting up a little straighter and winc
ing again, whats going on in school?
Well, Flitwicks got rid of Fred and Georges swamp, said Ginny.
He did it in about three seconds. But he left a tiny patch under the
window and hes roped it off 
Why? said Hermione, looking startled.
Oh, he just says it was a really good bit of magic, said Ginny,
shrugging.
I think he left it as a monument to Fred and George, said Ron
through a mouthful of chocolate. They sent me all these, you know,
he told Harry, pointing at the small mountain of Frogs beside him.
Must be doing all right out of that joke shop, eh?
Hermione looked rather disapproving and asked, So has all the
trouble stopped now Dumbledores back?
Yes, said Neville, everythings settled right back down again.
I spose Filch is happy, is he? asked Ron, propping a Chocolate
Frog card featuring Dumbledore against his water jug.
Not at all, said Ginny. Hes really, really miserable, actually. . . .
She lowered her voice to a whisper. He keeps saying Umbridge was
the best thing that ever happened to Hogwarts. . . .
All six of them looked around. Professor Umbridge was lying in a
bed opposite them, gazing up at the ceiling. Dumbledore had strode
alone into the forest to rescue her from the centaurs. How he had
done it  how he had emerged from the trees supporting Professor
Umbridge without so much as a scratch on him  nobody knew, and


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
Umbridge was certainly not telling. Since she had returned to the cas
tle she had not, as far as any of them knew, uttered a single word. No
body really knew what was wrong with her either. Her usually neat
mousy hair was very untidy and there were bits of twig and leaf in it,
but otherwise she seemed to be quite unscathed.
Madam Pomfrey says shes just in shock, whispered Hermione.
Sulking, more like, said Ginny
Yeah, she shows signs of life if you do this, said Ron, and with his
tongue he made soft clipclopping noises. Umbridge sat bolt upright,
looking wildly around.
Anything wrong, Professor? called Madam Pomfrey, poking her
head around her office door.
No . . . no . . . said Umbridge, sinking back into her pillows,
no, I must have been dreaming. . . .
Hermione and Ginny muffled their laughter in the bedclothes.
Speaking of centaurs, said Hermione, when she had recovered a
little, whos Divination teacher now? Is Firenze staying?
Hes got to, said Harry, the other centaurs wont take him back,
will they?
It looks like he and Trelawney are both going to teach, said
Ginny.
Bet Dumbledore wishes he couldve got rid of Trelawney for
good, said Ron, now munching on his fourteenth Frog. Mind you,
the whole subjects useless if you ask me, Firenze isnt a lot better. . . .
How can you say that? Hermione demanded. After weve just
found out that there are real prophecies?
Harrys heart began to race. He had not told Ron, Hermione, or
anyone else what the prophecy had contained. Neville had told them
it had smashed while Harry was pulling him up the steps in the Death
Room, and Harry had not yet corrected this impression. He was not
ready to see their expressions when he told them that he must be ei
ther murderer or victim, there was no other way. . . .


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
It is a pity it broke, said Hermione quietly, shaking her head.
Yeah, it is, said Ron. Still, at least YouKnowWho never found
out what was in it either  where are you going? he added, looking
both surprised and disappointed as Harry stood up.
Er  Hagrids, said Harry. You know, he just got back and I
promised Id go down and see him and tell him how you two are. . . .
Oh all right then, said Ron grumpily, looking out of the dormi
tory window at the patch of bright blue sky beyond. Wish we could
come . . .
Say hello to him for us! called Hermione, as Harry proceeded
down the ward. And ask him whats happening about . . . about his
little friend!
Harry gave a wave of his hand to show he had heard and under
stood as he left the dormitory.
The castle seemed very quiet even for a Sunday. Everybody was
clearly out in the sunny grounds, enjoying the end of their exams and
the prospect of a last few days of term unhampered by studying or
homework. Harry walked slowly along the deserted corridor, peering
out of windows as he went. He could see people messing around in
the air over the Quidditch pitch and a couple of students swimming
in the lake, accompanied by the giant squid.
He was finding it hard at the moment to decide whether he wanted
to be with people or not. Whenever he was in company he wanted to
get away, and whenever he was alone he wanted company. He thought
he might really go and visit Hagrid, though he had not talked to him
properly since he had returned. . . .
Harry had just descended the last marble step into the entrance hall
when Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle emerged from a door on the right
that Harry knew led down to the Slytherin common room. Harry
stopped dead so did Malfoy and the others. For a few moments, the
only sounds were the shouts, laughter, and splashes drifting into the
hall from the grounds through the open front doors.


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
Malfoy glanced around. Harry knew he was checking for signs of
teachers. Then he looked back at Harry and said in a low voice,
Youre dead, Potter.
Harry raised his eyebrows. Funny, he said, youd think Id have
stopped walking around. . . .
Malfoy looked angrier than Harry had ever seen him. He felt a kind
of detached satisfaction at the sight of his pale, pointed face contorted
with rage.
Youre going to pay, said Malfoy in a voice barely louder than a
whisper. Im going to make you pay for what youve done to my
father. . . .
Well, Im terrified now, said Harry sarcastically. I spose Lord
Voldemorts just a warmup act compared to you three  whats the
matter? he said, for Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle had all looked
stricken at the sound of the name. Hes your dads mate, isnt he? Not
scared of him, are you?
You think youre such a big man, Potter, said Malfoy, advancing
now, Crabbe and Goyle flanking him. You wait. Ill have you. You
cant land my father in prison 
I thought I just had, said Harry.
The dementors have left Azkaban, said Malfoy quietly. Dad and
the othersll be out in no time. . . .
Yeah, I expect they will, said Harry. Still, at least everyone
knows what scumbags they are now 
Malfoys hand flew toward his wand, but Harry was too quick for
him. He had drawn his own wand before Malfoys fingers had even
entered the pocket of his robes.
Potter!
The voice rang across the entrance hall Snape had emerged from the
staircase leading down to his office, and at the sight of him Harry felt a
great rush of hatred beyond anything he felt toward Malfoy. . . . What
ever Dumbledore said, he would never forgive Snape . . . never . . .


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
What are you doing, Potter? said Snape coldly as ever, as he
strode over to the four of them.
Im trying to decide what curse to use on Malfoy, sir, said Harry
fiercely.
Snape stared at him.
Put that wand away at once, he said curtly. Ten points from
Gryff 
Snape looked toward the giant hourglasses on the walls and gave a
sneering smile.
Ah. I see there are no longer any points left in the Gryffindor hour
glass to take away. In that case, Potter, we will simply have to 
Add some more?
Professor McGonagall had just stumped up the stone steps into the
castle. She was carrying a tartan carpetbag in one hand and leaning
heavily on a walking stick with her other, but otherwise looked quite
well.
Professor McGonagall! said Snape, striding forward. Out of St.
Mungos, I see!
Yes, Professor Snape, said Professor McGonagall, shrugging off
her traveling cloak, Im quite as good as new. You two  Crabbe 
Goyle 
She beckoned them forward imperiously and they came, shuffling
their large feet and looking awkward.
Here, said Professor McGonagall, thrusting her carpetbag into
Crabbes chest and her cloak into Goyles, take these up to my office
for me.
They turned and stumped away up the marble staircase.
Right then, said Professor McGonagall, looking up at the hour
glasses on the wall, well, I think Potter and his friends ought to have
fifty points apiece for alerting the world to the return of YouKnow
Who! What say you, Professor Snape?


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
What? snapped Snape, though Harry knew he had heard per
fectly well. Oh  well  I suppose . . .
So thats fifty each for Potter, the two Weasleys, Longbottom, and
Miss Granger, said Professor McGonagall, and a shower of rubies fell
down into the bottom bulb of Gryffindors hourglass as she spoke.
Oh  and fifty for Miss Lovegood, I suppose, she added, and a
number of sapphires fell into Ravenclaws glass. Now, you wanted to
take ten from Mr. Potter, I think, Professor Snape  so there we
are. . . .
A few rubies retreated into the upper bulb, leaving a respectable
amount below nevertheless.
Well, Potter, Malfoy, I think you ought to be outside on a glorious
day like this, Professor McGonagall continued briskly.
Harry did not need telling twice. He thrust his wand back inside
his robes and headed straight for the front doors without another
glance at Snape and Malfoy.
The hot sun hit him with a blast as he walked across the lawns
toward Hagrids cabin. Students lying around on the grass sun
bathing, talking, reading the Sunday Prophet, and eating sweets
looked up at him as he passed. Some called out to him, or else
waved, clearly eager to show that they, like the Prophet, had decided
he was something of a hero. Harry said nothing to any of them. He
had no idea how much they knew of what had happened three days
ago, but he had so far avoided being questioned and preferred it
that way.
He thought at first when he knocked on Hagrids cabin door that
he was out, but then Fang came charging around the corner and al
most bowled him over with the enthusiasm of his welcome. Hagrid, it
transpired, was picking runner beans in his back garden.
All righ, Harry! he said, beaming, when Harry approached the
fence. Come in, come in, well have a cup o dandelion juice. . . .


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
Hows things? Hagrid asked him, as they settled down at his
wooden table with a glass apiece of iced juice. You  er  feelin all
righ, are yeh?
Harry knew from the look of concern on Hagrids face that he was
not referring to Harrys physical wellbeing.
Im fine, Harry said quickly, because he could not bear to discuss
the thing that he knew was in Hagrids mind. So, whereve you
been?
Bin hidin out in the mountains, said Hagrid. Up in a cave, like
Sirius did when he 
Hagrid broke off, cleared his throat gruffly, looked at Harry, and
took a long draft of juice.
Anyway, back now, he said feebly.
You  you look better, said Harry, who was determined to keep
the conversation moving away from Sirius.
Wha? said Hagrid, raising a massive hand and feeling his face.
Oh  oh yeah. Well, Grawpys loads better behaved now, loads.
Seemed right pleased ter see me when I got back, ter tell yeh the truth.
Hes a good lad, really. . . . Ive bin thinkin abou tryin ter find him a
lady friend, actually. . . .
Harry would normally have tried to persuade Hagrid out of this
idea at once. The prospect of a second giant taking up residence in the
forest, possibly even wilder and more brutal than Grawp, was posi
tively alarming, but somehow Harry could not muster the energy nec
essary to argue the point. He was starting to wish he was alone again,
and with the idea of hastening his departure he took several large
gulps of his dandelion juice, half emptying his glass.
Evryone knows youve bin tellin the truth now, Harry, said Ha
grid softly and unexpectedly. Thas gotta be better, hasn it?
Harry shrugged.
Look . . . Hagrid leaned toward him across the table, I knew


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
Sirius longer n you did. . . . He died in battle, an thas the way hedve
wanted ter go 
He didnt want to go at all! said Harry angrily.
Hagrid bowed his great shaggy head.
Nah, I don reckon he did, he said quietly. But still, Harry . . . he
was never one ter sit around at home an let other people do the fightin.
He couldn have lived with himself if he hadn gone ter help 
Harry leapt up again.
Ive got to go and visit Ron and Hermione in the hospital wing,
he said mechanically.
Oh, said Hagrid, looking rather upset. Oh . . . all righ then,
Harry . . . Take care of yerself then, an drop back in if yehve got a
mo. . . .
Yeah . . . right . . .
Harry crossed to the door as fast as he could and pulled it open. He
was out in the sunshine again before Hagrid had finished saying good
bye and walked away across the lawn. Once again, people called out
to him as he passed. He closed his eyes for a few moments, wishing
they would all vanish, that he could open his eyes and find himself
alone in the grounds. . . .
A few days ago, before his exams had finished and he had seen the
vision Voldemort had planted in his mind, he would have given al
most anything for the Wizarding world to know that he had been
telling the truth, for them to believe that Voldemort was back and
know that he was neither a liar nor mad. Now, however . . .
He walked a short way around the lake, sat down on its bank, shel
tered from the gaze of passersby behind a tangle of shrubs, and stared
out over the gleaming water, thinking. . . .
Perhaps the reason he wanted to be alone was because he had felt
isolated from everybody since his talk with Dumbledore. An invisible
barrier separated him from the rest of the world. He was  he had


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
always been  a marked man. It was just that he had never really un
derstood what that meant. . . .
And yet sitting here on the edge of the lake, with the terrible weight
of grief dragging at him, with the loss of Sirius so raw and fresh inside,
he could not muster any great sense of fear. It was sunny and the
grounds around him were full of laughing people, and even though he
felt as distant from them as though he belonged to a different race, it
was still very hard to believe as he sat here that his life must include,
or end in, murder. . . .
He sat there for a long time, gazing out at the water, trying not to
think about his godfather or to remember that it was directly across
from here, on the opposite bank, that Sirius had collapsed trying to
fend off a hundred dementors. . . .
The sun had fallen before he realized that he was cold. He got up
and returned to the castle, wiping his face on his sleeve as he went.
Ron and Hermione left the hospital wing completely cured three days
before the end of term. Hermione showed signs of wanting to talk
about Sirius, but Ron tended to make hushing noises every time she
mentioned his name. Harry was not sure whether or not he wanted to
talk about his godfather yet his wishes varied with his mood. He
knew one thing, though Unhappy as he felt at the moment, he would
greatly miss Hogwarts in a few days time when he was back at num
ber four, Privet Drive. Even though he now understood exactly why
he had to return there every summer, he did not feel any better about
it. Indeed, he had never dreaded his return more.
Professor Umbridge left Hogwarts the day before the end of term.
It seemed that she had crept out of the hospital wing during dinner
time, evidently hoping to depart undetected, but unfortunately for
her, she met Peeves on the way, who seized his last chance to do as
Fred had instructed and chased her gleefully from the premises,


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
whacking her alternately with a walking stick and a sock full of chalk.
Many students ran out into the entrance hall to watch her running
away down the path, and the Heads of Houses tried only halfheart
edly to restrain their pupils. Indeed, Professor McGonagall sank back
into her chair at the staff table after a few feeble remonstrances and
was clearly heard to express a regret that she could not run cheering af
ter Umbridge herself, because Peeves had borrowed her walking stick.
Their last evening at school arrived most people had finished pack
ing and were already heading down to the endofterm feast, but
Harry had not even started.
Just do it tomorrow! said Ron, who was waiting by the door of
their dormitory. Come on, Im starving. . . .
I wont be long. . . . Look, you go ahead. . . .
But when the dormitory door closed behind Ron, Harry made no ef
fort to speed up his packing. The very last thing he wanted to do was to
attend the endofterm feast. He was worried that Dumbledore would
make some reference to him in his speech. He was sure to mention
Voldemorts return he had talked to them about it last year, after all. . . .
Harry pulled some crumpled robes out of the very bottom of his
trunk to make way for folded ones and, as he did so, noticed a badly
wrapped package lying in a corner of it. He could not think what it
was doing there. He bent down, pulled it out from underneath his
trainers, and examined it.
He realized what it was within seconds. Sirius had given it to him
just inside the front door of twelve Grimmauld Place. Use it if you need
me, all right?
Harry sank down onto his bed and unwrapped the package. Out
fell a small, square mirror. It looked old it was certainly dirty. Harry
held it up to his face and saw his own reflection looking back at him.
He turned the mirror over. There on the reverse side was a scribbled
note from Sirius.


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
This is a twoway mirror. Ive got the other.
If you need to speak to me, just say my name
into it youll appear in my mirror and Ill be
able to talk in yours. James and I used to use
them when we were in separate detentions.
And Harrys heart began to race. He remembered seeing his dead
parents in the Mirror of Erised four years ago. He was going to be able
to talk to Sirius again, right now, he knew it 
He looked around to make sure there was nobody else there the
dormitory was quite empty. He looked back at the mirror, raised it in
front of his face with trembling hands, and said, loudly and clearly,
Sirius.
His breath misted the surface of the glass. He held the mirror even
closer, excitement flooding through him, but the eyes blinking back at
him through the fog were definitely his own.
He wiped the mirror clear again and said, so that every syllable rang
clearly through the room, Sirius Black!
Nothing happened. The frustrated face looking back out of the
mirror was still, definitely, his own. . . .
Sirius didnt have his mirror on him when he went through the arch
way, said a small voice in Harrys head. Thats why its not working. . . .
Harry remained quite still for a moment, then hurled the mirror
back into the trunk where it shattered. He had been convinced, for a
whole, shining minute, that he was going to see Sirius, talk to him
again. . . .
Disappointment was burning in his throat. He got up and began
throwing his things pellmell into the trunk on top of the broken
mirror 
But then an idea struck him. . . . A better idea than a mirror . . . A


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
much bigger, more important idea . . . How had he never thought of
it before  why had he never asked?
He was sprinting out of the dormitory and down the spiral stair
case, hitting the walls as he ran and barely noticing. He hurtled across
the empty common room, through the portrait hole and off along the
corridor, ignoring the Fat Lady, who called after him, The feast is
about to start, you know, youre cutting it very fine!
But Harry had no intention of going to the feast . . .
How could it be that the place was full of ghosts whenever you
didnt need one, yet now . . .
He ran down staircases and along corridors and met nobody either
alive or dead. They were all, clearly, in the Great Hall. Outside his
Charms classroom he came to a halt, panting and thinking disconso
lately that he would have to wait until later, until after the end of the
feast . . .
But just as he had given up hope he saw it  a translucent some
body drifting across the end of the corridor.
Hey  hey Nick! NICK!
The ghost stuck its head back out of the wall, revealing the extrav
agantly plumed hat and dangerously wobbling head of Sir Nicholas de
MimsyPorpington.
Good evening, he said, withdrawing the rest of his body from the
solid stone and smiling at Harry. I am not the only one who is late,
then? Though, he sighed, in rather different senses, of course . . .
Nick, can I ask you something?
A most peculiar expression stole over Nearly Headless Nicks face as
he inserted a finger in the stiff ruff at his neck and tugged it a little
straighter, apparently to give himself thinking time. He desisted only
when his partially severed neck seemed about to give way completely.
Er  now, Harry? said Nick, looking discomforted. Cant it
wait until after the feast?


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
No  Nick  please, said Harry, I really need to talk to you.
Can we go in here?
Harry opened the door of the nearest classroom and Nearly Head
less Nick sighed.
Oh very well, he said, looking resigned. I cant pretend I havent
been expecting it.
Harry was holding the door open for him, but he drifted through
the wall instead.
Expecting what? Harry asked, as he closed the door.
You to come and find me, said Nick, now gliding over to the win
dow and looking out at the darkening grounds. It happens, some
times . . . when somebody has suffered a . . . loss.
Well, said Harry, refusing to be deflected. You were right,
Ive  Ive come to find you.
Nick said nothing.
Its  said Harry, who was finding this more awkward than he had
anticipated, its just  youre dead. But youre still here, arent you?
Nick sighed and continued to gaze out at the grounds.
Thats right, isnt it? Harry urged him. You died, but Im talking
to you. . . . You can walk around Hogwarts and everything, cant you?
Yes, said Nearly Headless Nick quietly, I walk and talk, yes.
So, you came back, didnt you? said Harry urgently. People can
come back, right? As ghosts. They dont have to disappear completely.
Well ? he added impatiently, when Nick continued to say nothing.
Nearly Headless Nick hesitated, then said, Not everyone can come
back as a ghost.
What dyou mean? said Harry quickly.
Only . . . only wizards.
Oh, said Harry, and he almost laughed with relief. Well, thats
okay then, the person Im asking about is a wizard. So he can come
back, right?


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
Nick turned away from the window and looked mournfully at
Harry. He wont come back.
Who?
Sirius Black, said Nick.
But you did! said Harry angrily. You came back  youre dead
and you didnt disappear 
Wizards can leave an imprint of themselves upon the earth, to
walk palely where their living selves once trod, said Nick miserably.
But very few wizards choose that path.
Why not? said Harry. Anyway  it doesnt matter  Sirius
wont care if its unusual, hell come back, I know he will!
And so strong was his belief that Harry actually turned his head to
check the door, sure, for a split second, that he was going to see Sirius,
pearly white and transparent but beaming, walking through it toward
him.
He will not come back, repeated Nick quietly. He will have . . .
gone on.
What dyou mean, gone on? said Harry quickly. Gone on
where? Listen  what happens when you die, anyway? Where do you
go? Why doesnt everyone come back? Why isnt this place full of
ghosts? Why  ?
I cannot answer, said Nick.
Youre dead, arent you? said Harry exasperatedly. Who can an
swer better than you?
I was afraid of death, said Nick. I chose to remain behind. I
sometimes wonder whether I oughtnt to have . . . Well, that is neither
here nor there. . . . In fact, I am neither here nor there. . . . He gave
a small sad chuckle. I know nothing of the secrets of death, Harry, for
I chose my feeble imitation of life instead. I believe learned wizards
study the matter in the Department of Mysteries 
Dont talk to me about that place! said Harry fiercely.


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
I am sorry not to have been more help, said Nick gently. Well
. . . well, do excuse me . . . the feast, you know . . .
And he left the room, leaving Harry there alone, gazing blankly at
the wall through which Nick had disappeared.
Harry felt almost as though he had lost his godfather all over again
in losing the hope that he might be able to see or speak to him once
more. He walked slowly and miserably back up through the empty
castle, wondering whether he would ever feel cheerful again.
He had turned the corner toward the Fat Ladys corridor when he
saw somebody up ahead fastening a note to a board on the wall. A sec
ond glance showed him that it was Luna. There were no good hiding
places nearby, she was bound to have heard his footsteps, and in any
case, Harry could hardly muster the energy to avoid anyone at the
moment.
Hello, said Luna vaguely, glancing around at him as she stepped
back from the notice.
How come youre not at the feast? Harry asked.
Well, Ive lost most of my possessions, said Luna serenely. Peo
ple take them and hide them, you know. But as its the last night, I re
ally do need them back, so Ive been putting up signs.
She gestured toward the notice board, upon which, sure enough,
she had pinned a list of all her missing books and clothes, with a plea
for their return.
An odd feeling rose in Harry  an emotion quite different from
the anger and grief that had filled him since Siriuss death. It was a few
moments before he realized that he was feeling sorry for Luna.
How come people hide your stuff? he asked her, frowning.
Oh . . . well . . . She shrugged. I think they think Im a bit odd,
you know. Some people call me Loony Lovegood, actually.
Harry looked at her and the new feeling of pity intensified rather
painfully.


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
Thats no reason for them to take your things, he said flatly.
Dyou want help finding them?
Oh no, she said, smiling at him. Theyll come back, they always
do in the end. It was just that I wanted to pack tonight. Anyway . . .
why arent you at the feast?
Harry shrugged. Just didnt feel like it.
No, said Luna, observing him with those oddly misty, protuber
ant eyes. I dont suppose you do. That man the Death Eaters killed
was your godfather, wasnt he? Ginny told me.
Harry nodded curtly, but found that for some reason he did not
mind Luna talking about Sirius. He had just remembered that she too
could see thestrals.
Have you . . . he began. I mean, who . . . has anyone youve
known ever died?
Yes, said Luna simply, my mother. She was a quite extraordinary
witch, you know, but she did like to experiment and one of her spells
went rather badly wrong one day. I was nine.
Im sorry, Harry mumbled.
Yes, it was rather horrible, said Luna conversationally. I still feel
very sad about it sometimes. But Ive still got Dad. And anyway, its
not as though Ill never see Mum again, is it?
Er  isnt it? said Harry uncertainly.
She shook her head in disbelief. Oh, come on. You heard them,
just behind the veil, didnt you?
You mean . . .
In that room with the archway. They were just lurking out of
sight, thats all. You heard them.
They looked at each other. Luna was smiling slightly. Harry did not
know what to say, or to think. Luna believed so many extraordinary
things . . . yet he had been sure he had heard voices behind the veil
too. . . .


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
Are you sure you dont want me to help you look for your stuff?
he said.
Oh no, said Luna. No, I think Ill just go down and have some
pudding and wait for it all to turn up. . . . It always does in the end.
. . . Well, have a nice holiday, Harry.
Yeah . . . yeah, you too.
She walked away from him, and as he watched her go, he found that
the terrible weight in his stomach seemed to have lessened slightly.
The journey home on the Hogwarts Express next day was eventful in
several ways. Firstly, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle, who had clearly been
waiting all week for the opportunity to strike without teacher wit
nesses, attempted to ambush Harry halfway down the train as he
made his way back from the toilet. The attack might have succeeded
had it not been for the fact that they unwittingly chose to stage the at
tack right outside a compartment full of D.A. members, who saw
what was happening through the glass and rose as one to rush to
Harrys aid. By the time Ernie Macmillan, Hannah Abbott, Susan
Bones, Justin FinchFletchley, Anthony Goldstein, and Terry Boot
had finished using a wide variety of the hexes and jinxes Harry had
taught them, Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle resembled nothing so much
as three gigantic slugs squeezed into Hogwarts uniforms as Harry,
Ernie, and Justin hoisted them into the luggage rack and left them
there to ooze.
I must say, Im looking forward to seeing Malfoys mothers face
when he gets off the train, said Ernie with some satisfaction, as he
watched Malfoy squirm above him. Ernie had never quite got over the
indignity of Malfoy docking points from Hufflepuff during his brief
spell as a member of the Inquisitorial Squad.
Goyles mumll be really pleased, though, said Ron, who had
come to investigate the source of the commotion. Hes loads better


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
looking now. . . . Anyway, Harry, the food trolleys just stopped if you
want anything. . . .
Harry thanked the others and accompanied Ron back to their
compartment, where he bought a large pile of Cauldron Cakes and
Pumpkin Pasties. Hermione was reading the Daily Prophet again,
Ginny was doing a quiz in The Quibbler, and Neville was stroking his
Mimbulus mimbletonia, which had grown a great deal over the year
and now made odd crooning noises when touched.
Harry and Ron whiled away most of the journey playing wizard
chess while Hermione read out snippets from the Prophet. It was now
full of articles about how to repel dementors, attempts by the Min
istry to track down Death Eaters, and hysterical letters claiming that
the writer had seen Lord Voldemort walking past their house that very
morning. . . .
It hasnt really started yet, sighed Hermione gloomily, folding up
the newspaper again. But it wont be long now. . . .
Hey, Harry, said Ron, nodding toward the glass window onto the
corridor.
Harry looked around. Cho was passing, accompanied by Marietta
Edgecombe, who was wearing a balaclava. His and Chos eyes met for
a moment. Cho blushed and kept walking. Harry looked back down
at the chessboard just in time to see one of his pawns chased off its
square by Rons knight.
Whats  er  going on with you and her anyway? Ron asked
quietly.
Nothing, said Harry truthfully.
I  er  heard shes going out with someone else now, said
Hermione tentatively.
Harry was surprised to find that this information did not hurt at
all. Wanting to impress Cho seemed to belong to a past that was no
longer quite connected with him. So much of what he had wanted


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
before Siriuss death felt that way these days. . . . The week that had
elapsed since he had last seen Sirius seemed to have lasted much,
much longer It stretched across two universes, the one with Sirius in
it, and the one without.
Youre well out of it, mate, said Ron forcefully. I mean, shes
quite goodlooking and all that, but you want someone a bit more
cheerful.
Shes probably cheerful enough with someone else, said Harry,
shrugging.
Whos she with now anyway? Ron asked Hermione, but it was
Ginny who answered.
Michael Corner, she said.
Michael  but  said Ron, craning around in his seat to stare
at her. But you were going out with him!
Not anymore, said Ginny resolutely. He didnt like Gryffindor
beating Ravenclaw at Quidditch and got really sulky, so I ditched him
and he ran off to comfort Cho instead. She scratched her nose ab
sently with the end of her quill, turned The Quibbler upside down,
and began marking her answers. Ron looked highly delighted.
Well, I always thought he was a bit of an idiot, he said, prodding
his queen forward toward Harrys quivering castle. Good for you.
Just choose someone  better  next time.
He cast Harry an oddly furtive look as he said it.
Well, Ive chosen Dean Thomas, would you say hes better? asked
Ginny vaguely.
WHAT? shouted Ron, upending the chessboard. Crookshanks
went plunging after the pieces and Hedwig and Pigwidgeon twittered
and hooted angrily from overhead.
As the train slowed down in the approach to Kings Cross, Harry
thought he had never wanted to leave it less. He even wondered fleet
ingly what would happen if he simply refused to get off, but remained


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
stubbornly sitting there until the first of September, when it would
take him back to Hogwarts. When it finally puffed to a standstill,
however, he lifted down Hedwigs cage and prepared to drag his trunk
from the train as usual.
When the ticket inspector signaled to him, Ron, and Hermione
that it was safe to walk through the magical barrier between platforms
nine and ten, however, he found a surprise awaiting him on the other
side a group of people standing there to greet him whom he had not
expected at all.
There was MadEye Moody, looking quite as sinister with his
bowler hat pulled low over his magical eye as he would have done
without it, his gnarled hands clutching a long staff, his body wrapped
in a voluminous traveling cloak. Tonks stood just behind him, her
bright bubblegumpink hair gleaming in the sunlight filtering
through the dirty glass station ceiling, wearing heavily patched jeans
and a bright purple Tshirt bearing the legend the weird sisters.
Next to Tonks was Lupin, his face pale, his hair graying, a long and
threadbare overcoat covering a shabby jumper and trousers. At the
front of the group stood Mr. and Mrs. Weasley, dressed in their Mug
gle best, and Fred and George, who were both wearing brandnew
jackets in some lurid green, scaly material.
Ron, Ginny! called Mrs. Weasley, hurrying forward and hugging
her children tightly. Oh, and Harry dear  how are you?
Fine, lied Harry, as she pulled him into a tight embrace. Over her
shoulder he saw Ron goggling at the twins new clothes.
What are they supposed to be? he asked, pointing at the jackets.
Finest dragon skin, little bro, said Fred, giving his zip a little
tweak. Business is booming and we thought wed treat ourselves.
Hello, Harry, said Lupin, as Mrs. Weasley let go of Harry and
turned to greet Hermione.
Hi, said Harry. I didnt expect . . . what are you all doing here?


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
Well, said Lupin with a slight smile, we thought we might have
a little chat with your aunt and uncle before letting them take you
home.
I dunno if thats a good idea, said Harry at once.
Oh, I think it is, growled Moody, who had limped a little closer.
Thatll be them, will it, Potter?
He pointed with his thumb over his shoulder his magical eye was
evidently peering through the back of his head and his bowler hat.
Harry leaned an inch or so to the left to see where MadEye was point
ing and there, sure enough, were the three Dursleys, who looked
positively appalled to see Harrys reception committee.
Ah, Harry! said Mr. Weasley, turning from Hermiones parents,
whom he had been greeting enthusiastically, and who were taking it in
turns to hug Hermione. Well  shall we do it, then?
Yeah, I reckon so, Arthur, said Moody.
He and Mr. Weasley took the lead across the station toward the
place where the Dursleys stood, apparently rooted to the floor.
Hermione disengaged herself gently from her mother to join the
group.
Good afternoon, said Mr. Weasley pleasantly to Uncle Vernon,
coming to a halt right in front of him. You might remember me, my
names Arthur Weasley.
As Mr. Weasley had singlehandedly demolished most of the Durs
leys living room two years previously, Harry would have been very
surprised if Uncle Vernon had forgotten him. Sure enough, Uncle
Vernon turned a deeper shade of puce and glared at Mr. Weasley, but
chose not to say anything, partly, perhaps, because the Dursleys were
outnumbered two to one. Aunt Petunia looked both frightened and
embarrassed. She kept glancing around, as though terrified somebody
she knew would see her in such company. Dudley, meanwhile, seemed
to be trying to look small and insignificant, a feat at which he was fail
ing extravagantly.


THE SECOND
WAR BEGINS
We thought wed just have a few words with you about Harry,
said Mr. Weasley, still smiling.
Yeah, growled Moody. About how hes treated when hes at your
place.
Uncle Vernons mustache seemed to bristle with indignation. Possi
bly because the bowler hat gave him the entirely mistaken impression
that he was dealing with a kindred spirit, he addressed himself to
Moody.
I am not aware that it is any of your business what goes on in my
house 
I expect what youre not aware of would fill several books, Durs
ley, growled Moody.
Anyway, thats not the point, interjected Tonks, whose pink hair
seemed to offend Aunt Petunia more than all the rest put together, for
she closed her eyes rather than look at her. The point is, if we find
out youve been horrible to Harry 
 and make no mistake, well hear about it, added Lupin
pleasantly.
Yes, said Mr. Weasley, even if you wont let Harry use the
fellytone 
Telephone, whispered Hermione.
Yeah, if we get any hint that Potters been mistreated in any way,
youll have us to answer to, said Moody.
Uncle Vernon swelled ominously. His sense of outrage seemed to
outweigh even his fear of this bunch of oddballs.
Are you threatening me, sir? he said, so loudly that passersby ac
tually turned to stare.
Yes, I am, said MadEye, who seemed rather pleased that Uncle
Vernon had grasped this fact so quickly.
And do I look like the kind of man who can be intimidated?
barked Uncle Vernon.
Well . . . said Moody, pushing back his bowler hat to reveal his


CHAPTER THIRTYEIGHT
sinisterly revolving magical eye. Uncle Vernon leapt backward in hor
ror and collided painfully with a luggage trolley. Yes, Id have to say
you do, Dursley.
He turned from Uncle Vernon to Harry. So, Potter . . . give us a
shout if you need us. If we dont hear from you for three days in a row,
well send someone along. . . .
Aunt Petunia whimpered piteously. It could not have been plainer
that she was thinking of what the neighbors would say if they caught
sight of these people marching up the garden path.
 Bye, then, Potter, said Moody, grasping Harrys shoulder for a
moment with a gnarled hand.
Take care, Harry, said Lupin quietly. Keep in touch.
Harry, well have you away from there as soon as we can, Mrs.
Weasley whispered, hugging him again.
Well see you soon, mate, said Ron anxiously, shaking Harrys
hand.
Really soon, Harry, said Hermione earnestly. We promise.
Harry nodded. He somehow could not find words to tell them
what it meant to him, to see them all ranged there, on his side. Instead
he smiled, raised a hand in farewell, turned around, and led the way
out of the station toward the sunlit street, with Uncle Vernon, Aunt
Petunia, and Dudley hurrying along in his wak